Kind: captions
Language: en
You look at the clock and wow, it is
11:11. It must be a sign from the
universe. So, we'd better make a wish.
If that is what you thought when you
first saw the word synchronicity in the
title, then I'm afraid that is a bit of
an all too common and and massively
misleading oversimplification
about what Carl Jung actually meant. So,
the idea of synchronicity is a very
complex one, as you'll see. So, let's
actually do it some justice by breaking
it down and trying to understand it true
depth and the the gravity of what I
meant by a word like this. And this
follows on directly from the previous
lesson when we asked, is meaning
created, given, or revealed? So, today
we're taking that part of the question
much further. Much, much, much further,
as you'll see. What you're about to
witness is a grown man get extremely and
progressively more and more excited as
we dive deeper and deeper into this
fascinating theory. And if you haven't
seen that previous lesson, then don't
worry. You'll still be able to make
sense of this one and I'll just pop a
cleaner picture on the screen now if you
want to have a look at that mind map in
more detail. And I will let you know
early on that I am pitching this
conversation somewhere between the
person who says, "Yeah, I know about
Jung and I know about shadow work, but I
want to know a bit more." and the
advanced level Jungian student who wants
to learn more about quaternios and the
alchemical approach to the the the inner
world. So, like I said, it can be a
heavy concept looking at synchronicity.
So, let's break it down bit by bit.
First things first, let's make it clear
what it isn't as well. So,
like I was saying, it isn't looking at
the microwave and seeing 11:11 or some
other repeating number and then making a
wish. It's not necessarily a sign from
the universe either or angel numbers.
So, let's establish why with two lovely
quotes from this. So, first up from my
fancy dictionary, it's going to be on
page 595.
I am quoting, by the way, Harper's
Encyclopedia of Mystical and Paranormal
Experiences. Very exciting as a title.
So, it starts on here. Synchronicity,
the unifying principle behind meaningful
coincidences. Psychiatrist Carl Gustav
Jung termed synchronicity an a causal
connecting principle that links
seemingly unrelated and unconnected
events.
Two important terms there I'm going to
go into in a second. Meaningful coin-
coincidence and a causal connecting
principle. So, let's just take it one
tiny little step further on page 596 and
then we can I really, really dig into
this.
Jung said that synchronicity can be
found in events that are meaningfully
but not causally related. That is, they
do not coincide with time and space, as
well as in events that do coincide in
time and space and have meaningful
psychological connections. In addition,
synchronicity links the material world
to the psychic. Synchronistic events, he
said, rest on archetypal foundations.
So,
just like in the previous lesson, let's
start creating our mind map from here to
track what's happening before we get
overwhelmed because like I say, there's
a lot going on on here. Just going to
put my book on the ground and then we
can make a good start on this.
So, what I've done is just before this
lesson started, I've made it really
clear these three parts that we're going
to go into a bit more detail on. So,
if it is going to be a meaningful
coincidence, let's start there. That's
going to be our simple working
definition for this lesson. Then it
means that basically any connection that
we make has to have or has to be a
connection of meaning rather than cause.
So, that is how we're going to start
this entire journey. I'm going to put
meaning here. I'm going to put the
here. Like I say, we're making this
visual, so it's a much easier to track.
So, super super simple example for this.
If you're playing snooker,
that's going to be a good way to think
about it. If you're playing snooker, one
ball hits into another, and then the
second ball moves because the first one
hit it. There's no question around
meaning here, like in an existential
sense. There's just cause and effect.
This happened, then that. There is no
interpretation needed. Whereas if you
compare that to something like a dream,
then that's a different situation. So,
one image in a dream doesn't strictly
speaking cause another because the laws
of cause and effect they just don't
apply in that world. So, when you wake
up, you don't think, "Oh, of course I
dreamt of an octopus because before that
there was a tattooed man, and he in turn
had to be there because of that big
snake." So, what what's more relevant
for the dream is the connection to it.
So, I'm going to start breaking this
down bit by bit on here. In fact, I
might even put connection over here.
Just to give us a bit more room as we
start to break all this down.
So, what's more relevant, like I say, is
the connection. There's the
interpretation.
That's another important word as we
start to think about something like
this.
So, we need to investigate a dream and
dialogue with it.
Again, all of these words, they all
start to come together to find that
meaning. We need to dialogue with it to
find the meaning. So, perhaps any
particular image was just a coincidence.
That's fine. What would raise and
transform this coincidence for Jung
would be the meaning factor. That's why
noticing 11:11 on the clock isn't
automatically a synchronicity. It's a
coincidence, yes, but it's not laden and
imbued with necessarily with meaning.
So, just to be really really clear on
this before we move on. Cause, so
causality, that is snooker that explains
how something happens. That's cause and
effect. Synchronicity, the dream that
reveals what.
Just about sneaking that on there. That
reveals what something could mean. So
again, in terms of the connection over
here, it's meaning driven, but it's also
narrative driven.
There's got to be an inquiry about the
entire thing.
So, if you want to be really fancy about
this, it's non-causal meaningful
alignment of the inner
and the outer.
It's definitely not random though. There
must be an an intention in here
somewhere. Just to throw a lot of other
words on this just to make it all really
clear. And already, we are absolutely
flying. And don't worry, I'm not just
going to drop a dense line like
non-causal meaningful alignment without
actually breaking that down in some way.
And that is where we're going to turn to
the wonderful Murray Stein, and we are
going to break down and recreate this
simple diagram on page 217.
So, to understand Jungian dynamics
properly, we need a way of viewing and
making sense of the the inner and the
outer worlds that we occupy. That's what
these two parts are referring to here.
So now, I said before in that
definition, a causal connecting
principle. It's a very confusing
sentence or term. So let's break that
down. So, if we draw out the Y axis
first, we've got space
and we've got time. Again, we're
breaking all this out, it'll make sense
towards the end. If you get a little bit
lost in the meantime, don't worry,
that's very very normal.
So, to quote Murray Stein, we need to
consider where and when the event
happened. That firmly roots us and
grounds us in our process. And just to
be really clear on this, Jung was
fundamentally a scientist, not a mystic.
So, these explorations, they have to be
grounded in the scientific method.
So, if let's say for example with all
this, a a rare insect lands on my page
as I'm writing this and as I'm talking,
there are factual elements to consider.
Space, so where did this event take
place? Time, when did this event take
place? So, like I say, we're grounded in
reality
in this case, like an objective sense of
reality.
So, what's the x-axis then? Well, the
x-axis, that ranges from causality.
Again, we talked about causality just a
second ago, and synchronicity.
Just to bring in that word and make it
really clear to how it all fits in. So,
again, just to quote Murray Stein, uh we
also need to think about what led up to
this moment and what it means. That's
what the x-axis is referring to. So, it
goes back to this bit over here when
we're talking about causes, so that's
how and meaning, which is what. So, this
is the element that raises something
from a coincidence or a cause to a
synchronistic moment.
And I didn't just say um insect
randomly, by the way, a second ago. Um
I'm referencing a quite a a famous uh
scarab beetle incident and and
synchronicity from Jung's own accounts.
So again, just to be really really brief
on something like this, while in a
conversation with Jung, uh a woman who
had a lot of difficulty in therapy
previously was recounting her dream
about a golden scarab beetle. And then,
as she was talking to Jung about this,
Jung noticed that in the window, a small
scarab-like beetle was trying to get
into the room at that exact moment. And
from memory, this wasn't a common type
of beetle for where they they lived,
either. So, in any case, just to be
really clear on this, here's the key
points. Because that woman felt that
this coincidence was significant, it
gave her a huge sense of meaning. As I
was saying before, meaningful
coincidence. It was acausal
in the sense that it had no direct
cause.
I'll pop that on here. That's what the A
before causal means. It means like not
or or no.
So, her talking about the beetle doesn't
cause the beetle to appear, but it was a
moment that felt meaningful to her as
well as being bizarrely unlikely to
happen. So, if we bridge these two
points together, it was a meaningful
coincidence and she connected to that
particular moment, but not in a way that
was due to cause and effect like the the
snooker example from before. So, in
fact, while we're here, let us just pop
feeling
on that map as well. But, let's take
this theory further because Jung is
absolutely not done yet. I'm getting
excited just talking about something
like this. So, I have used over here the
word archetype. And I've also left a
little bit of space intentionally in the
lower left corner for a reason. So, I'm
going to turn to these two aspects now.
So,
let's as much as possible keep things
simple with archetype. So, archetype
comes from two terms. arche
And I believe it's pronounced tupos.
But, spelled like this. So, arche, that
refers to beginnings.
Again, it all makes sense. And just just
being first as well. Anything anything
similar to that. And tupos, that refers
to things like patterns.
And if you are here from the previous
lesson, we talked about blueprints as
well. That's where this starts to come
back. So, patterns and blueprints,
impressions, anything else like that.
So, when we combine arche and tupos, we
get archetype. So, we get first patterns
or original blueprints, something like
that. So, for Jung, it is through the
archetypes that we connect to something
larger than us.
So, we don't just exist as personal and
individual selves, we also exist as part
of a collective as well. And we can
observe that we all share these same
propensities or our potentials or we all
fall into the groove of following these
same basic patterns. So, just really,
really simple example, if you watch, for
example, a lot of the Rings and Star
Wars and Harry Potter, you'll probably
immediately recognize something deeper
that connects characters like Gandalf,
Yoga
Yoda and Dumbledore. And that would be,
for example, if we're talking about
archetypes, the the wise old man or the
or the magician or the sage. It'll
probably one of those that you'd
immediately go to. So, what you're
seeing is the examples
and then from there, you can tell what
pattern it originally came from. They're
clearly not, for example, warriors or
kings. So, if we go back to that dream
example from before, if you were to
receive advice from a from a
wizard-looking character, then it's
probably a good sign that you're in a
healthy connection to the archetype. And
the reason why I am mentioning this is
because Jung, he theorized that
archetypes and synchronicities and a new
word, as well as some space here, the
self with a capital S, are all connected
as part of a bigger theory. So, let me
just put connection here cuz that's
going to be extremely important when we
go into the the the weeds of all of
this.
So, it's all connected as part of
something bigger. The self here, that's
referring to the the totality
of the psyche.
It's all of the the the conscious
and the unconscious
elements
put together. So, when you think of who
you are, or you're using the phrasing of
I when we're talking about the ego, for
example, that the self is considerably
more than that. So, if you think about
the ego, that'd be like the center of
consciousness, but the self is the is
the the conscious and the unconscious
combined. So, the bigger task in life,
especially in the second half of life
for Young, it's about unification.
Pop that on here cuz that's again really
important. It's about unifying the ego
with the unconscious and integrating the
person's otherwise unlived life up until
that point. That's how something like
shadow work would fit in with all this.
So, if we go back to the very very start
of all this, if you thought of
synchronicity and you thought, "Yeah, I
know about Young. I know about shadow."
That's one tiny tiny tiny element within
all of this overall. It's absolutely
huge. So, the self, just to be really
clear when we're talking about the
shadow and how all this connects, that's
the self that is calling to us. It's
driving us towards purpose, towards keep
keyword here, wholeness. That's really
important for Young.
He's encouraging us to face and to
realize and ultimately embody and
integrate, where possible, the the
unrealized potential that's lying
dormant in us. All this has been pushed
out of sight. Again, if we want to use
one other fancy word here, come on to
this another time,
he uses the term individuation. That's
how all of this would fit in if you want
to think about it in terms of Young's
idea. Now, it might feel like I've gone
on a bit of a tangent there, but if you
want to take Jungian theory more
seriously than just like a casual glance
at a shadow work video on YouTube every
now and again, you need to grasp how the
self, the archetype, and synchronicity
are all intimately connected. That is
absolutely key for something like this.
So, to realize your full potential,
you're going to need a personal
philosophy, and that has to include
Where can I fit this on here? I'm going
to sneak it in the middle.
It's going to have to include the
rational
and the irrational side of life.
That's a key Jungian idea. Personally, I
would prefer the term non-rational
rather than irrational, but I am
sticking with Jung's own wording for the
sake of this lesson. And I'll go into
that into detail on that a little bit
more in a future lesson on exactly how
they the the the archetypes, for
example, they're actually biological in
nature for Jung rather than mental cuz I
know this sounds really abstract so far,
but the archetypes are biological thing.
It's just enough to know at this
particular point in time that the
archetypes are both physical and uh
and and psychic. So, I'm going to
actually use the word I was just
debating whether to put it on, but I
think it is relevant. It is psychoid.
That's the that's the word that he uses
in the sense that it bridges the gap
between the uh the personal and the
collective. That's why I'm just pop
popping this on here. And again, it
bridges us over
towards wholeness and so on. Lots and
lots and lots of links to be made. So,
it bridges the gap between the personal
and the collective, the conscious ego
and the unconscious contents, the I and
the self.
It's massive. Can Can you see how all of
this starts to come together?
But also, how uh just how much more
complex Jungian theory is rather than
just, for example, like the persona
versus the the shadow.
If we pop back up to this little chart
over here as well, um you can see all of
this at work all at once. So, my
conscious and aware sense of self with a
lowercase S, that is located in a
physical body. So, I have to take into
account space and time. I have to take
into account where those things happen.
That's the Y axis. That's why it's
physical, it's science, it's it's it's
objective reality when we talk about it
that way. But, if you want to raise
something from just causality to
synchronicity, then we're going to have
to go beyond the rational into something
more.
Um so, at that stage there, again, I'm
very much run out of room here. That'd
be the realm of something like religion.
Um maybe art as well that'd be relevant
here. And again, that still also
connects to reality,
except the difference is that one is
more of an objective reality, this one
is a bit more of a subjective one
instead.
So, these ideas of synchronicity and
self and the connection between the the
personal uh or the individual and the
collective and these all come through
the archetypes. It's all part of the
same theory. These aren't separate at
all. They all support each other and
they only make sense because of one
another. Like that I said before,
synchronicities, they rest on archetypal
foundations. If you want one of one of
the little quote edges like ground this
even more.
Can you Can you see how fun this is? Or
Or is this just me? Like compared to
where we started with like about what,
15 minutes ago with like 11:11 and this
super vague idea of of the universe
speaking to us and we've ended up with
something like this which is just so
incredibly rich. It's like paths upon
paths upon beetles upon beetles. It's
It's genuinely it's soul-nourishing
conversation. Conversation for the whole
soul and nothing but the soul. Or should
I say self rather than soul?
There's so much with all this. Hopefully
you'll Hopefully my excitement maybe uh
maybe it radioactively emits to you via
this video. But, let's land this Jungian
plane because we're getting a bit
carried away. So, to answer that
original question that was posted last
time, is meaning created, given, or
revealed? Well, we've just done a pretty
thorough examination of the revealed
aspect.
So, as we are looking at this, just to
be really, really clear, the self, I'm
going to bring it all together now, the
self as the organizing principle of the
psyche that drives us towards wholeness.
But, we can only individuate, which
means actualizing our potentials, by
going beyond our ego and connecting to
something bigger.
And we can't fully integrate the
archetypes because they're just so
powerful and they're so vast, but we can
activate certain patterns that are lying
dormant within us if we learn, again,
how to meaningfully connect with them.
So, meaning
that can be revealed to us, if we go
back to that idea from before, revealed,
can be revealed to us via the self or
via this archetypal connection, just as
long as we don't fall victim to traps of
I'm going to pop this down here, of
grandiosity. This is definitely
something I'm going to talk about in a
future video.
>> [snorts]
>> That'd be like claiming that we are the
archetype or we are fully and
consciously the whole self. So, it's
just it's just not possible, basically.
So, when we encounter an event or a
coincidence and it feels [snorts]
meaningful to us at that particular
moment, then our inner and outer worlds
are aligning at that particular point.
So, again, that's important not because
of cause and effect, but because of
something that is non-rational. That's
where a-causal starts to fit in with
this. So, it's not cause and effect,
it's non-rational. So, meaning is
revealed to us, not created by us,
according to this this theory. So, the
self is trying to let us know something,
but do we dare to actually listen to it?
That's the question and that's the big
task.
So, that is a more detailed exploration
of this revealed section that we that we
gave a bit of an overview in the
previous lesson. I've intentionally left
out active imagination on purpose
because I think that it needs a full
video in itself and there's already as
you can see quite a lot of terms. It's a
really tough lesson to film that one. So
I hope I hope that makes sense. I hope
my passion for all this comes through as
well because I genuinely get really
really excited.
You might need to go back over it
because it's not easy to get your head
around it first and it goes so much
deeper than all this still. I've just
decided just to stop there and that's
it. So same as last time, I'll tidy up
my diagrams and post them on here and
I'm also keeping a log of them on
Instagram as well. So by all means give
me a follow over there because I'm going
to build up this this database of
visuals.
The undiagrammed life is not worth
living. That's what I've called this
playlist and I'm enjoying creating these
diagrams for you as well. So hopefully
they're useful. Just let me know what
you think. And even with all of this
actually let's bring it relevant let's
make it relevant for you. So
have you experienced any synchronicities
recently? Or
even more than that, how might you be
more open to synchronicities in the
future? And is Young just making all of
this up and reading too much into it?
Are they just coincidences and that's
it? There's a lot to think about. So
let's keep this conversation going and
I'll see you next time for our lesson
three in this series.
See you then.
