How can people effectively bounce back after failing so that they don't fall into that trap that so many of us do and that you create this identity that you're act that you are a failure. >> Yeah, this is great. Uh so the the first thing is we have to realize that we all have a narrator that narrates our life. The second thing is we choose what that narrator highlights and focuses on. So that narrator is going to dictate what we think and how we view our life and all of that. But it it a lot of this narrator is also about perspective. So like all these problems that we've talked about so far are perspective and priority. That's it. Perspective and priority. And it it sucks to to have this problem throughout our life and then like oh this this one little shift can change this thing I've been dealing with. So we we have some mental resistance to that like why would something so simple solve this big complex thing and I realized that people have very complex issues in their life but this that doesn't mean the solution has to be complex. So number one, the narrator is there. And number two, you can remind yourself for anybody going through this, remind yourself that going off of these details, saying that I am a failure and then I know that this won't happen in the future for me. Uh that's you're we're starting to border on narcissism because we're saying I picked to the right perspective. I know how I know every detail of the story and I know what to focus on and I can predict the future. U so we're starting to get into this little narcissistic self-reerential bubble of I know what the future holds. So, number one, change the narrator. And number two, anything that's happened in your past, um, unless you're some weird psychopath or something, we people need to be delusionally delusionally self-forgiving. And, and that is the biggest step one to start changing the narrator. >> It's tough, man. And it's tough because I mean I just speak from my own personal experience of like the what the toughest part about it is the cognitive dissonance that exists where you are trying to change the narrative and because you you're so far back in life or you think you're so far back in life like what's in front of you just doesn't match the narrative you're trying to change. And then the idea of creating like po the positive momentum you are creating doesn't feel good enough because you know you're paying attention to social media or you're like addicted you were addicted to substances which create this false sense of dopamine. Like how can people you know start to feel good again and make life kind of exciting for where they're at even though they still have a lot to learn and a long way to go on their journey. >> Yeah. I think just dissecting some of those beliefs is the biggest way to do that. And dissecting it meaning like is this objective or subjective? Am I really buried in this? And then uh one of the things I've done with a lot of my clients is take one of those beliefs. So let's say we've got somebody that says I am a failure. So that means I'm not I can't be successful or I can't do this thing. I can't have this stuff in my life. Then we'll make a giant meme like with beautiful mountains on it and we'll put the text on the screen like u you have to be perfect in order to be successful which is ridiculous stupid but we see the stupid idea on a regular basis and we bring it into conscious awareness so we realize how stupid some of this internal dialogue is. So, we made it like this his desktop wallpaper, this big photo of mountains, and then we put on there uh I think this guy that I'm referring to right now, he had some uh money psychology stuff, but his his limiting belief was like, I can't make money or I feel guilty if I make money and then I can't make a lot of money because that means I'm a bad person because I'm not donating it. So, we made we took his limiting beliefs and made it extreme. So, we want to exaggerate that. So, we took his limiting belief and I think uh what he put on his desktop wallpaper was my kids don't deserve money because I I told him at the end of the day that's really what you're saying. And and if somebody thinks they're a failure, it's my kids and the people that I lead don't deserve u me at my best. They need me to think that I'm a failure. or I might put on the wallpaper, if I think I'm a failure, that means I'm a good person. Just to kind of bring that into conscious awareness as fast as we can and and show ourselves how absurd and ridiculous some of this stuff is. And I think at the end of the day, you watch somebody go through a psychedelic journey, some spiritual revelation happens in their life, they lose their loved one, and everything in their life changes. The first big thing that happens is all the that I thought was a really big deal is not a big deal anymore. Everything that I thought was a huge deal is no longer a big deal. And this is no matter what kind of huge awakening someone has, that's step one to all of these awakenings is everything I thought was a big deal ain't a big deal. Shifting gears a little bit, but kind of building off of the the failure conversation is I think people I think it helps for people to have goals in life and like we talked about this forward thinking approach. I also think again this quote unquote simulation that people live in. It's easy to get sucked into these insanely unrealistic goals like I want to be a millionaire by the time I'm 25. Is it possible? Sure. But is it likely? No. like all these insanely unrealistic goals that either a defeat people in their tracks because they're like, "How the hell am I going to get there?" B, they end up doing like horrific things to get there because they want they care more about the goal than the journey. And C, they end up falling flat on their face like midway through because they've they realize like, oh, like life doesn't work this way. How do you how do you think about goal setting and how can people effectively do so? >> Yeah. Or they get the million and they're still depressed and they're like, "Wait, that too. That there's the Yeah, exactly. >> I'm logging in. I'm looking at my bank account and I still feel like so any of those goals I would I would say for everybody and I've studied human motivation for a while. I don't think I'm a goal setting expert, but I would definitely say that making being a million, what what was the goal? Having a million dollars by the time I'm 25, that is a that is a thing, right? So, that is a symptom of something. Owning a yacht when I'm 23 is a symptom of having done something with my life. So when people are setting goals, what they're typically setting are symptoms. These are the symptoms that I want to have. But what they're not setting are the cause of those symptoms. So like being a millionaire by the time you're 45 to do that, for that to be a byproduct, what would I have to do with my life? So for all of our goals, we have to go back and say, how do I make my goal, this little shallow goal that I have on the top here? How do I make that a byproduct of how I live my life? So that's how we have to set goals. So most people are setting symptoms instead of goals. What we want to set are the causes. How can I cause that million dollars to be in my bank account? So that means I have to wake up at a certain time. That means I have to do this and this and this. Those should be the goals. The byproduct should be the million dollars. by by the time you're 25. >> How do people stay grounded like in the process when um when they're when things aren't happening immediately for them like and when they're doing all the right things and yet success isn't right in front of them? Like how can people kind of course correct their mind? >> I think that the reason that we're we're like, "Oh, I'm not getting success that I want." is that we're we're seeking and I I'm just going to go back to this. We're seeking we're we're defining success as symptoms, >> right, >> instead of causes. So if I work on these causes hard enough that that my lack of success is a lack of me kind of working and getting to the place I need to be. 100% the world's not fair. Never will be. We just got to get over that. It and that sucks. But like if you read the autobiography of like Oprah and like read how Oprah was born in her early years, uh most people's life doesn't even compare to that level of horror and nasty upbringing and unfairness. So that should delete all of your excuses. like there are for everything that anybody would say that they've been through there are a hundred successful people who've been through way worse uh than than you have. So it's definitely out there but my my vision of success should not be a symptom it should be a cause. So am I am I following all these things then yes then that's that I'm achieving my goals. So, my actual goals are just these behaviors and habits that I need in order for that million dollars to be there. >> I know we talked in our last conversation about dopamine and how people get have an unhealthy relationship with dopamine. I'd like to kind of revisit that because I don't think, you know, I don't think things have gotten better with that for people and maybe there's people who didn't listen to our first conversation. um like why do you think or how can people have a better relationship with dopamine so that they can you know maintain this real sense of joy and fulfillment about life? >> Yeah. So the first is to figure out where where we're getting dopamine from. And the way to do this is you take a like a regular sheet of printer paper. I was looking around to see if I have some in here. But you draw a line down the middle, a little circle on that line. So, you kind of make it look like a little basketball court. And on the left side of the page, you write down everything that you're getting dopamine from in your life. Everything that you're getting pleasure from. And confusing pleasure and happiness is the number one way to ruin your life. Pleasure and happiness are not the same. They're not even they don't even touch each other at all. So, where am I getting deriving this dopamine pleasure- seeeking behavior from? Maybe it's chocolate or cheesecake. Maybe it's uh watching porn or maybe it's uh doing drugs or alcohol or you know fill in the blank. All these things that I'm getting it from and that's the time to be honest that I'm also getting it from Twitter or Instagram or Facebook. I'm getting dopamine hits all right there. So I'm going to draw out a map of where all that dopamine is. And then I'm going to assign a point value. Let's say I'm limited to a 100 points and I'm going to assign a point value to each one of those. And then on the right side, where's all the places I'm getting good dopamine from? And the our number one source of dopamine should be X and Y and Z. So, it's different for everybody. It should be us, right? It should be me. It should be if I'm really setting myself up for success and I wake up, I want to wake up at 4:00 a.m. The moment that I wake up, I feel fantastic because the nighttime version of me took the multivitamin, took the magnesium, uh went to bed on time, drank a full glass of water, fill in the blank, all these things to make me present day feel fantastic. But if I if I have all these negative things down this one side of the sheet and I go over here and I'm writing stuff like doing my course assignments in college or spending time with my kids or doing all the things that that I want to get dopamine from and let's say I gave my kids are getting eight points and Twitter is getting 39. You're starting to see this imbalance. So we're it's again we're taking something unconscious and putting it into conscious awareness. So, the way to know whether or not you're getting dopamine out of something is if it feels good or captures all of your attention during that moment and then it you it doesn't feel good later. It's like I taught a force once on how to tell if you're in a conversation with a psychopath. We and of course you can't I mean there it's hard but we went through this big checklist but one of the big ones on there was if you feel fantastic during the conversation everything feels great and then you you stop the conversation and all of it just drops off. That is a person who's trained or or mentally trained themselves to trigger all of your dopamine hit points. And so you didn't a conversation that feels good afterwards is more rooted in oxytocin and and serotonin. So if I'm doing something in my life and it the great feeling of it doesn't kind of fade off gently over time, probably dopamine, which is what we do with social media and all that. So really identify those sources of dopamine. And I'm willing to bet that most people drew out a map of where it's coming from and here's all the good things that I get dopamine from. Where it's coming from is probably not going to be the right amount. And we want to change. We're going to want to tip those scales for sure. >> Yeah. I think once people can understand what dopamine is, I think their life will dramatically change. I mean, it really shifted for me um understanding more about like addiction, you know, and how certain substances just completely hijacked the brain. And and I think I've talked about this on the show before, but you know, one of the greatest um descriptions of like how your reward system is hijacked was when I was I was sitting in a therapist's office who I think I believe he was like an addiction therapist or psychiatrist. But in any event, he he said to me, he said, "You know, when you're not an addict, like thinking about something like the Grand Canyon is like a 10 out of 10 pleasurable experience." And he's like, "What happens is you start to do some coke and then you get this influx of artificial dopamine. Now the coke starts to go from like a one to a two to a three and then the Grand Canyon goes from like a 10 to an eight." And then you've like reversed it to where now like a few months down the road your reward system has been completely hijacked and the thought of going to a grand the Grand Canyon is so boring to you because you're so used to getting all this artificial dopamine from a substance like coke. And it really shifted things for me because I remember like being that person that like I couldn't go to the aquarium, I couldn't go to a football game, a baseball, I couldn't do anything without being under the influence of a substance when I was younger. And it it totally made sense for me. And I think that it part of getting out of the simulation and what we're talking about now I just think is acceptance of normaly in that you know your brain your the way your brain is responding is kind of normal based on how you're treating it right and if you're not changing the way you're treating your brain it's going to continue to do the same and and that's why it's I think these conversations are are paramount um and like how how do you think like like how can people like survive in this in this world where again you know we're talking about dopamine uh reccalibrating and stuff and yet like I mean there's just dopamine like everywhere and like you said you can't like live in a hut and like turn off everything but you got to stay like kind of tuned in to you know what's really going on around you >> and I I think it it sounds so ridiculous but I think you can look at all the research it's peer reviewed We've researched that just mindfulness practices on their own and you don't have to like sit in a room with incense and like spa music playing and all that kind of stuff. You can do this while you're remulching your yard uh if you want to. But having a practice of mindfulness and being mindful, not just while you're doing the app or while you have the little mindful audio thing in, but doing that throughout your day, while you're in a meeting, while you're in um traffic, while you're cooking, while you're stressing out about having to change a diaper or fix a mess or your roof starts leaking, can you do the mindfulness in there? So getting good at being present is so powerful because you talk about the Graham Ken and your face lit up because you have memories. You have real core memories of being present in that moment. You talk about the dopamine from Coke, your face didn't light up because we don't have the core memories from that. So the Grand Canyon is not just a bunch of dopamine. It's 3D experience and being so immersed in a moment. That's why if we have people that really study mindfulness and there's some really neuroscientists and and psychologists that are studying the effects of mindfulness, but I mean this has been studied for 5,000 years, but but they just called it meditation or they called it zen or they called it some other word. But it's just forcing it's like Caesar Milan. You're like you're taking your little animal brain and you're becoming the dog whisperer and you're forcing that mofo into the present moment as much as you possibly can. Like every time there's a little shift in awareness, you're bringing it back to the m bring it back to the moment. And then there's a way to find like this almost a pleasure in everyday things and just enjoying your life as it is. It's not like you're popping confetti cannons every day, but you're just quietly enjoying what's going on in the present moment. my face lit up because, you know, one of the most memorable experiences of my life is I was in Vegas by myself for a fitness conference and I had some time to to kill and I was staying um at the hotel. I was at the wind and there was like a um a flyer for like helicopter ride to the Grand Canyon and it was like the most thing I've ever done was you know getting in this helicopter and leaving from Vegas and you fly like into the canyon. It was so cool. Well, I highly recommend uh people try that. I mean, it's just I had never been to the Grand Canyon, but it was a hell of a way to see it, and I'm like, I don't think I ever need to go back because I saw it in like the most complete way possible. And it got like the thrill, you know, the thrillseker in me lit up. It got the serenity part of me, like all the things were just engaged during that time. And you know, one of the things that that the Grand Canyon does that's similar to psychedelic therapy is it shows you how small you are and how insignificant we are in in the most beautiful way possible. And I just did that that exact same helicopter ride probably a month in maybe two months ago. >> Oh, really? >> For the first time ever. Yeah. And we landed down there in the canyon. It was me and my son. It was so much fun. >> Yeah. It's cool, right? You're there for like 30 minutes, 45 minutes. And did you go through Maverick? Was that the company? >> Yeah. Yeah, that's what we did. That's what I did, too. >> That's really cool. And we landed a little picnic area. They gave you some snacks and stuff. Man, it was it was profound for me to see. I'd never seen the Grand Canyon until just a few months ago, unless it's like looking out of an airplane window or something on the way to LA. But I think there's a there's a profound perspective shift when you go to giant things like that. The Grand Canyon shows you how tiny you are and how big the world is and how beautiful nature is and how powerful it is and how not powerful we are and not special we are. And there's a lot um a lot that goes on in our life that we get stressed out about is us trying to convince ourselves that we're super super special and we we can't be socially injured. Nobody can uh make fun of us. We can't get any kind of social injury because we're really really special. >> What have you found to be like the common thread of what typically holds people back from, you know, feeling confident, having authority, etc.? >> It's going to be a deep answer. It's not like, oh, it's putting a forgetting a post-it note on your window or something. But it will falls back to three things. And all three of those things are patterns that we develop in childhood. And if we can identify what those patterns are and how they're how we kind of unconsciously put stuffed them in this backpack and then carried them into adulthood without us really acknowledging it, without our awareness, then we have so much more control over our life. And those three things, if you imagine a triangle, and we call this the childhood development triangle, and I can send it to you if you want to like overlay it right now or put it down where people can grab it. It's what did I do around the age of eight to earn and keep friends to feel safe and to earn rewards from somebody and the rewards are different some for some kids it was like food because they had a rough life and other kids it may have been praise for playing the violin really well but what did I do for friends safety and rewards and how did I avoid things to feel safe to get friends to get rewards what did I avoid And whatever those responses are for 99% of people, those are the ways that we handle conflict as an adult, those become the kind of fear of stepping out that we have as an adult because it's a fear of loss. I'm going to lose friends. I'm going to lose safety. I'm going to lose rewards. Those three things and they start when we're like eight or nine years old. And just kind of going back and this quiz is going to help everybody that's listening right now with this. I can start seeing this pattern. Like I'm a 44 year old man now. I could take this quiz right now and be like, "Oh [\h__\h] this started in middle school. I'm still doing this one little thing from middle school." And just kind of dragging that thing, that file out of the cabinet and putting it out in the open gives me a lot more control over it because I'm conscious of these patterns. So now they become a choice of like, do I want to continue this or not? before we don't have a choice because we never opened that closet and never looked inside and pulled those files out. >> I've heard you give your thoughts on like cognitive behavioral therapy like have you found that any other therapies to be like effective at like kind of revamping the mind? Uh, I'm not a like a therapy expert, but as far as I understand now, the average therapy session for extreme anxiety, stress, PTSD, all of those kind of things to kind of get through that is like 6 to nine years. And it's the same thing that's accomplished in four hours of of psilocybin mushrooms. the same results like nine years of therapy in in a short little package. There are some therapies, hypnosis has been proven to work with a lot of people and it kind of has like about a 70 to 80% success rate. Cognitive behavioral therapy has a high success rate over time. So, if you keep at it and and keep doing it for several years, it will work. Psychedelics work higher than 90% and that's in like four hours. it's in one one session. So, that's the fastest route to do it. Working with a coach if you can, like if you have a coach that's really digging through and and walking you through a lot of this stuff and unpacking your your your own [\h__\h] to yourself is is the biggest thing because if if you're just sitting there filling out a little workbook along with a book that you got on Amazon or something like that, it's going to be full of BS because we we're very deceptive to ourselves. I mean, I'm an expert in this stuff. I saw a therapist probably six years ago and I was I was full of it until I really unpacked a lot of this stuff. So, I'm not immune to any of this. But that's the fastest way to do it is to get a coach. Hypnosis, psychedelics, and cognitive behavioral therapy are really powerful for that. >> What have you found to be the relationship between like dopamine and motivation? I think a lot of this comes down to people just don't feel motivated to change their life. >> Yeah. And I think that goes back to the dopamine map. It's like where the where the dopamine's coming from is a big deal. And they may not be setting the right goals and the motivation might not be there. And here's the thing that nobody's going to say. You're going to see all these mindset coaches, therapists. You're going to see people saying, "You need to think differently. You need to set different goals. You need to wake up earlier in the morning. Brush your teeth with your opposite hand." all of these little pieces of advice. And people try this for 11, 12, 15 years and they're not really getting better. And finally, they go see somebody that tests their vitamin levels, that tests their neurotransmitter levels, and all they discover, oh, I've just had a vitamin D deficiency. This whole freaking time they were trying to like think their way out of a vitamin deficiency or a neurotransmitter problem. And they had a physiological problem, not a psychological problem. So that is a big powerful thing. A doctor can order those tests and man vitamin B, vitamin D deficiencies can severely impact your life. And then you're going to every everybody you see is going to say, "Oh, well, you need to think more positive. You need to think differently. You might have a hormonal neurotransmitter or vitamin imbalance that's just ruining your life." The good news, if that's true, is it's a very, very easy solution 99% of the time. Well, and but I think like from the action perspective and behavior perspective, I think there there needs to be a strong focus in my opinion on like small wins for people when they're looking to tr to change their life because what happens is we live in this world of instant gratification where we want to achieve these big things in, you know, an hour when really it's just a it's just compounding small wins to achieve that big thing. I would love to hear your perspective on it as far as behavior like what is the importance of just doing the right thing every day and having that lead up to something major. >> Yeah. And they I think all the old coaches back in the day would call this right action. Am I am I doing the right action? And that's the same with so many people now get upset and they kind of get into a a little emotional rut because they're so used to things being quick. They like they're kind of thinking I want the ompic version of of discipline. I want the give me the ompic so I can do X and not everything has that and some things just take time and those small wins are so critically important but what's more important is my human brain is not fully in charge of all of this. It's that mammal. So always think of how could I dis how would Caesar Milan handle this [\h__\h] So if I have a problem with a dog's motivation, I need four things to lead a mamalian brain. Whether it's a human mamalian brain, a dolphin or a dog, it's focus. Where is all my focus going? What are the sources of authority? And then tribe and emotion. Focus, authority, tribe, emotion. It spells out fate. and it is your fate for sure. So just figuring that stuff out. So how can I change the mamalian focus? So if I have affirmations on my wall or I have a a calendar that has X's on it every time I work out or every time I get into ketosis or or whatever somebody's trying to do an your dog doesn't understand that. That's the big piece that everybody seems to be missing. A dog can't see that your mamalian brain isn't excited about a black and white thing on the wall with a bunch of X's on it unless you have this tremendous emotional attachment to it. So that's where like these vision boards come in, who we're hanging out with, who we're spending time with, where that why that tribe is so critically important. And all of these elements of our life like how could I show my goals to my dog? How would I make my dog happy that they're doing the right thing? and do those things for yourself. I'm gonna go on a run and then I'm gonna celebrate with something. If I'm setting goals, I'm gonna put thousands of pictures associated with each goal so that there I can see images so that the mamalian brain starts to understand the direction. So it's not human going this direction and mamalian brain doesn't know the human wants to go this direction. So getting that mamalian brain on board is so critically important. So, say I I hired you and I said, "You know what? Like, Chase, like I have been struggling with discipline, procrastination for years and I just can't seem to figure it out. I got my dopamine chart here and it's like I'm doing all the wrong habits. What how can I quickly like start to unlearn some of these bad habits and then be able to build discipline and stay consistent even when I don't feel like it?" So, one of the biggest mistakes that I see clients making, so if you're my client here and I'm I'm talking to you and this is our our thing here, there was a mistake in your language that I hear from so many people, if you don't mind me calling you out. >> Of course. >> You said discipline to do all of these things that I don't want to do. A lot of people see people eating healthy and going to the gym, maybe eating a keto diet or or something like that and they're doing these things all the time. Maybe they're writing a book and they're they're disciplined about writing the book, but the our mind says, "I wish I had that level of discipline or or we internally think they're so disciplined about that." Nothing of what you're seeing is discipline. that guy who goes to the gym every day. None of that is discipline. It's routine. The discipline was there when the habit was started only. So it's very important that we understand discipline is a finite resource. So let's let's start one habit at a time. So we're setting habits instead of goals. And the discipline is only we only need like a little shot glass full of discipline to kick off a habit. And most people have these 19 goals. Like they're sitting there eating hot dogs every day and they're surfing social media for 18 hours a day. They have this really horrible lifestyle. And they're like, "You know what? In six weeks, I'm going to be muscular, fit, thin, successful, rich, good-looking, and have extremely white teeth." So, you need one try to do one discipline habit formation at a time. And the fastest discipline thing that kind of sprouts to rewards in every other area of life is I'm going to use this little shot glass of discipline to start forming a habit of taking care of my future self. If I can do that, if that becomes a habit, everything benefits. every single aspect of my life starts changing because I'm getting I'm using my discipline to force this one thing into a habit for like I think it's 64 days it takes to set a habit and whatever number somebody says is wrong. Some of them are are useful but it's probably around around that time. I'm going to use that little shot glass of discipline to do that. So now if I have a habit of prioritizing my future self, every other habit that I want to form starts getting easier because I have an emotional relationship with that future version of me. And if how do I get the mamalian brain involved? You download that app on your phone that's like make me look old or I think it's called face app and it makes you like 95 years old. You can take a selfie with it and it makes you super old. Print those out on a nice color printer and put it on your fridge. Put it next to your bed. Put it in your office where you're going to see it. So, we don't really prioritize our future self because we never met them. We have no relationship to our future self. So, this helps that mamalian brain start prioritizing and connecting with that longer vision, that older version of our self. We've talked quite a bit about self-awareness and understanding some of the things in our life that might be limiting us whether whether it be like you know how we show up in situations, our environment, our relationship with dopamine etc. And you talked about like you kind of called me out and said the number one mistake that you know you see people make is that they think that you know you said to get people to do things they don't necessarily want to do. In that same conversation, is there anything that you see like right off the bat common thread that you help people kind of stop the bleeding where you're like, "All right, generally speaking, there's like three or four or five things that you see most people do time and time again that's destroying their focus and their inability to reach their goals." >> Yes. So, we'll go through kind of an I have a separate little inventory I walk each of my clients through. And I want to identify where you're feeling discomfort in your life. So it's social settings and all this other stuff. And then I'm going to identify where you seek comfort like Instagram, Tik Tok, alcohol, all of these things in your life. And we're going to pull com we're going to start making it more uncomfortable in those areas and increasing the comfort in the other areas. So so much of this stuff comes down to being comfortable. So, I'm seeking comfort like most people are seeking comfort in video games, TV, Netflix, binging, Tik Tok or whatever. And that's more acting as an anesthetic. So, I want to find out where all of these little situations we have this long questionnaire we go through, but essentially what are all these little scenarios where I experience some kind of discomfort? maybe when I go to the bank, when I when I log in and check my account, when I have to speak on stage, when I have to do a pitch, all of these other things. And then where am I seeking comfort? And then so this is kind of like a dopamine map except it's stress versus anesthetic is really what we're we're finding out here. So I'm going to pull out of the anesthetic and start pulling some of that onto the stress side. And you'd be wildly surprised at how fast those things can kind of reverse. So, where are we seeking comfort? And I can start polo pulling away from that. And it gives more energy, more discipline, more willpower to all of these other things. And and start it is such a rapid change. I've seen people change in as little as like a week and a half, two weeks just from mapping this out and getting super raw and real on a lot of this stuff. And hypnosis is is a fast way to do that and a fast way to really make that change that you were asking about. you know, a lot of your work talks about like controlling the mind, understanding people's body language, un understanding how to read people, you know, and I think sometimes people are like, how does that apply to me? Like, when am I ever going to really need to quote unquote do that? Like, the people I'm around, I already trust, you know, when I go into certain situations, like, no one's going to be deceitful. like give the elevator pitch as to why people should care about that area of your work even though they're not like in in the in the intelligence agency. >> So I think when people hear behavior profiling or body language expert they assume that it's about lie detection and the truth is it's it's more about stress detection. I really want to spot these little stress signals and I want to spot what makes somebody really comfortable, what somebody's interested in. And everything that I teach in my company goes down to three things. And if you look at what determines success in life, we can we can look at communication skills like can I communicate, persuade, influence very effectively? Can I master myself? So communication, self-mastery and observation. So, our failures can be traced back to I failed to communicate. I wasn't really in charge of myself. I was sending all the wrong signals or I didn't observe the room. I failed to read the room. So, this goes back to understanding what people are really feeling and understanding from a behavior profiling perspective. They use these three sentences. So, I know one of their hidden insecurities is this. So there's hidden information in language that's not just oh this guy scratched his nose and he's lying because there's so much of that [\h__\h] on the internet already which is not true and that's one of the biggest myths but we can also develop a little profile of everybody that we know not as some intelligence asset but I'm truly as a leader the better I am at understanding people understanding that person's needs their the values that they're not even talking about we can find these things hidden hidden inside of people's language. And this is in everyday conversations. One of my books is called six-minute x-ray. And within six minutes, you can find out a person's insecurities, their fears, their secret desires, how they make decisions, what decision type they are, and all kinds. You would be stunned at how much information you can see in like six minutes just getting good at some of that stuff. >> How can people apply that stuff to better themselves and to improve their life like once they know information like that? Well, I think it allows you to communicate with everybody a lot differently. I think it makes you a better leader because you're understanding the people that are working for you that the people that you know, but you're also when you're going through this inevitably when somebody goes through this this training with me, especially the six-minute x-ray stuff, it's a huge lens into oursel as well because we're learning about how we use language and what our language reveals about us. these tiny little pauses and these seemingly insignificant words that people say. So, we're learning not just to be a better communicator, but we're we're be getting better at knowing oursel. And one of the you ask about the most common problem I think the most common problem I've ever seen is that that people don't really know who they are. They don't know themselves. >> It's tough, right? Because it's like you have to be comfortable with all those parts of you, right? And I think so. So, is there anything else that people can do to get good at knowing themselves other than what we've talked about? >> Yeah, I mean, there's there's all kinds of workbooks and therapy and stuff like that, but this just getting to a point of radical honesty. So, you get to a point of if if I'm in a conversation and I'm feeling that there was an awkward pause, I'll just say that out loud. And if I'm feeling like nervous about something, I'll say that I'm nervous out loud. and starting to get to a point where I used to would have never revealed this little thing because I feared judgment. And start getting yourself used to making those little revelations in conversation. And I guess the end result of all of this, the most important thing that I could ever tell you about like getting to know yourself is that if once we start like the starting point for all of this is am I able to locate me on that childhood triangle, the friends, safety, and rewards and this is the one thing that starts untying all of the other stuff. That is definitely the from what I've seen the fastest entry point into a lot of that self-nowledge. >> Yeah. I mean radical honesty is is so important and I think you know people's ability to do that I think is just so transformational like once they get to that point you know you touched on like some of the reading people and talking about how to communicate with other people and the mind control stuff like which one of those skills do you think is the most like if somebody were to to take a deeper dive into your work and that side of things like which skill do you think they should they should focus on f first? I think it going into learning how to read people automatically makes you start reading yourself and seeing it in yourself unless you're like a psychopath and you have no no self-awareness whatsoever. And there's I have a free class that's like I don't know six seven hours that kind of walks you through this fundamental shift on how you view the world and how we view other people. And I think that is definitely the best place to start because if I can learn how to see what's going on around me and learn about myself at the exact same time that becomes a little pathway to selfmastery. >> What are your thoughts on on motivation? Do you think it actually works? Like can somebody like you know read something or look at themselves in the mirror and be like hey you know I want to make this change like can that carry them or do you think it's BS? I think a lot of motivation is going to be based in neurochemistry. So some people say I had this big epiphany and it it may not have been the idea that they had. They they might have traveled and they might have taken a supplement or they might have balance something inside their heads. I think a lot of motivation is is neurochemically based. And there are so many cases where we see people that are going to see a coach. They're working one-on-one with a coach that's working on their mindset and walking them through these questions, exercises, and all this other stuff. Meanwhile, 10 years later, they discover that they've got a vitamin D deficiency. or later on down the road they're deficient in zinc or their epinephrine norepinephrine brain chemistry is out of whack and they just need to add something to their lifestyle or their diet to get that back in. So I think we tend to assume that a lot of psychological problems symptoms are psychologically rooted when in fact it's a physiological deficit of some sort that's causing the psychological symptom. And there's I mean there's cases where uh somebody goes to a therapist office or goes to see a therapist and they're like, "Well, my I every time when I'm walking to work, my hands get numb and tingly. I feel really nervous. My heart's racing. I have this weird thing where I stop from walking. I just feel kind of paralyzed as I'm I'm doing these things." And they're like, "Oh, we have social anxiety. Let's work on that." And then they discover a few years later the person's got a brain tumor that was causing a lot of these symptoms. We tend as a as a culture, we tend to ignore in anything that's happening in our mind, we tend to ignore physiological issues that might be causing the symptoms. >> Is there anything like more recently like any kind of habits or shifts you've made in your own life um that you've made that have that have led to some self-improvement? Yeah. 39 Yeah. 39 days ago I quit drinking because so many of my friends had stopped drinking. Um and it just I was lying to myself uh that it's not harmful. And I have a brain disease and alcohol ex with the exception of maybe red wine. Alcohol is a neurotoxin. It's a neurotoxic substance and I was hurting myself and uh that was the one of the biggest shifts I've ever made. And the shift wasn't in like trying to quit and getting through the process of quitting alcohol and going through withdrawals and all that stuff. It's shifting your worldview to where you know so much truth about that alcohol that all the reasons that you might come up with for drinking are false. So you're flooding your brain with a maximum amount of truth and data to the point where the decision becomes a byproduct of your knowledge and your awareness creates the byproduct of sobriety. Was there anything in your life that was kind of going on in the moment or were you just like, "Hey, you know, I got this brain condition. My friends are doing this." Because I mean, a lot of times with addiction, I'm sure as you well know, like something happens where it's like crap, I'm at this crossroads. I either fix my life or things are about to get much worse. I don't think I had a big crossroads. I think we uh our companies started growing a lot and I hired my sister as as my CEO. So I had her quit her old job and she came on and she my sister Holly is is running our company now and she quit drinking like seven years ago and what I noticed we were at like a family Thanksgiving thing. People were kind of pouring out wine and everybody was having a cocktail scotch and all that kind of stuff. and she didn't drink and it and I asked her like if how do how do you resist it? That was my question. So that conversation with Holly was my big turning point. I said how do you resist the alcohol? She said there's not a it's not about resistance. It's about education. So like if if you know enough about it then you just won't there will be no desire left in your entire body. Uh and that that conversation with Holly was was a big catalyst for that. What did that experience like teach you about behavior change? Like going through something like that? I mean, quitting alcohol is like for many it's like nobody people don't do it because it's so tough and for a lot of people it's like this challenge that takes months or years. Like what did that experience teach you? I think that we very often lie to ourselves about the reasons that we do destructive things. Whether it's being in in a relationship or drinking too much or getting pissed off in traffic when when we really shouldn't be. We are lying to ourselves and we typically the right amount of truth will get us out of a lot of these negative behaviors like it does alcohol or anything else. I'm just missing pieces of truth. Which goes back to what we talked about, this massive shift in perspective that psychedelics you create is why that helps people stop addictions and stuff because it gives you such a it like zooms you out so far uh on everything that like you're you're realize like I'm I'm spending a whole lifetime thinking that a I'm special, b I'm separate from everybody else, and c uh all of my little reasons that I have in my head for doing a lot of weird that I are completely false. >> I think addiction is a simulation for a lot of people where they're just caught in the cycle of it and they can't get out. They don't know what to do. And I think these from what I know, the first few months of recovery for people are very crucial because it's the time I think when cra when cravings are really high. It's like you're recalibrating your mental well-being if you were somebody who numbed with substances. Again, I'm not saying you did this. I'm just saying this is generally speaking. And I think it comes down to habits, right? And h what you're doing on a day-to-day basis to keep yourself busy and again towards this future version of yourself. Like what what types of things do do you do like regularly now to keep yourself like away from potentially going back and drinking? I mean, I have a I have a full bar in my living room, and this is for when people come over, somebody wants to make themselves a cocktail or something, or maybe we have a party here at the house. Um, I think just the enjoyment of after you break the physical and the physiological addictions, the enjoyment of not needing that thing feels a lot like freedom to me. I'll speak for myself. But I think the that people focus a little too much on the chemical addiction to alcohol. I'm going to go through these withdrawals. I'm going to have I'm I'm worrying about uh DTS, which is delirium tremens like this micro seizures that can happen when somebody's withdrawing. But we forget that about 90% of addictions are handto-mouth addictions. So, I'm overeating food. I'm smoking cigarettes, drinking alcohol, or I'm I'm taking drugs or I'm smoking too much weed or whatever it is. A lot of these addictions are hand-to-mouth. So, when we try to get off, we miss out this this hand-to-mouth gesture that that we're so fond of and that we're so used to. So replacing that during the process of getting off of addiction um or getting off of a substance is is really important to have something there to help you wean off of the physical movement pattern as well as the the chemical itself. >> And so what what can be helpful for for people to do that? Well, on the light side, kind of the caffeinefree diet advice part of this would be like just having something there. So, if I'm quitting drinking, I'm going to set up a scenario where I'm going to have something there that I'm can I'm sipping on throughout the evening or if I drink at night or or whatever it is. And on the the heavier side of this, and this is not advice uh for anybody, but u you need to talk to your doctor, but psychedelics are one of the fastest ways that you can do this. And this is through uh a psilocybin journey. And now ketamine prescriptions are are getting more common place. Doctors are feeling less anxiety and insecurity about writing that the prescription for micro do ketamine like to be used throughout the day. And this is like a 25 mgram troy that you can dissolve under your tongue and it can help with addiction and coming off of things and anxiety and depression and PTSD and so much of these other things even though it's a man-made uh substance. It's it's proven to be so incredibly helpful and it's it's likelihood for abuse is so low. And like if you look at mushrooms, they're anti-addictive. Nobody's addicting getting addicted to uh like psychedelic mushrooms or anything like that. So I think that that's a huge revolution that I think people should be taking more advantage of. I mean, our ancestors used this stuff for millennia and we kind of it's good to see that we're going through this psychedelic revolution right now where there's so much of this stuff is starting to come out and I think people are waking up to it. So, is there a way to mimic that without psychedelics? Because obviously like there's cost involved with that and you want to make sure you're doing it under medical care and there maybe there's people that you know a lot of people who struggle have struggled with addiction are like completely sober and that's like against their moral compass especially if they're in like 12step to do anything like that. So, have you found um like any practices that can, you know, over time get you deeply connected to your subconscious so that you can kind of move forward with the pain and trauma in your life? >> There is one uh the the most effective thing I've ever seen that doesn't involve any I hate to use the word drug. Uh it's such a stupid word and it it's not appropriate to talk about psychedelics at all. But the thing that uses just our body is this thing called neurogenic trimmers. And if you look at a mammal, the average mammal is programmed, all mammals are programmed to go through this trimmering process. So when a squirrel or a fox or a impala or a tiger or polar bear goes through some kind of traumatic experience, let's say they're drinking water at some watering crocodile, bites them in the neck and they survive. They don't go back to their little tribe area or their den and like curl up under a tree for weeks at a time. And why don't why don't we have that? Why don't we have psychoggenic trauma in animals? Um, and one thing that this guy who did the research on this, his name is Dr. David Burcelli, brilliant, brilliant guy. Uh, he was a trauma surgeon. Uh, but he noticed that after these animals had this trauma experience, they go into this state that looks like the body is vibrating or shaking almost like it looks kind of like a seizure. And you can even ask, if you know a police officer, you can ask a cop. They roll up on a car accident and there's an infant in the back seat in a in a stroller or or not a stroller, like a car seat and they survived, their body goes into the shaking response. But think about this for a second. Throughout your life, like if you get into something that's super heavy, traumatic, or stressful, and your hands are shaking, like let's say you're trying to maybe dial 911, and what's the first thing people say when their hands are shaking? They say, "I can't stop shaking." Because we develop this instinct to suppress these tremors. And we're the we we all have the instinct to to go into these tremors. But we have this instinct like if I if I lay on the ground and shiver and shake around that is going to make me look sick. It's going to look like a seizure. Because what are people going to do if you're going into this tremor state? They're going to try to stop you as soon as possible. who will lay you down, tell you to stop, tell you everything's okay. So, it's socially weird for us to do that. So, we suppress this. Uh, but the cool thing is you're not going to see a fox or a monkey or a squirrel with depression. You're not going to see it. Uh, and the one thing that that we really suppress that they don't is this tremor response. And Dr. Brcelli's work is is he had he has named these tremors himself. Uh but his system is called trauma release exercises and it's free. You can watch it on YouTube. You can learn about it. And the cool thing is it's not like you have to learn how to do it. It's built into your nervous system to handle this trauma response. The one thing the thing that takes time to learn is how to stop suppressing it. How to kind of take your finger off of that kill switch and let that stuff start coming out. And the the really fascinating thing about it is that it's mostly just brain stem and spinal cord. You can have a full conversation while your body's going into this stuff. You look this up on YouTube separately, but you can watch TV, you can read a book, you can listen to an audio book. You do not need to be consciously involved in the process. So, the body really knows how to fix itself. Uh, and I've seen this, this is it's so popular and so effective that it was mandatory for us to go through some of this training coming back from a deployment. uh overseas and it changed my life. The first time I ever did it, it was lifechanging and it takes you maybe 30 or 45 minutes to to find your way into this trimmer state. But once you do it, once you do it one time, you can come back to those tremors very easily within like 5 seconds for the rest of your life. >> That's fascinating. That's wild. >> It's cool. And when you walk somebody through it, the first phase that that we go through is is called the ego phase because I'm I'm starting to do these trimmers. I might be laying down and we'll put somebody in a stressed position for a minute to kind of induce the muscle trimmers. So that you're you're saying, "Yes, I want this. I want this." So you're teaching the brain stem that it's okay. You're kind of giving the brain stem permission to do what it's been not allowed to do for a very long time. And but the ego phase is what prevents us from really doing it. And and that's what takes the time is going through that ego phase of it's okay for me to do this and I want this to happen. >> I've heard you say that like one of the biggest things that people struggle with that consume your content is they feel like they're lacking control in their life. What do you think they're lacking control of? >> Well, this has multiple levels. I think our we are in a pandemic of loneliness and that is the top part of Maslo like the social belonging confidence and all of that leads to an increase in the next level which is our self-confidence our personal discipline which leads to a failure in the top part of Maslo's hierarchy of needs which is like this self-actualization can I like can I accomplish the crap that I want to accomplish this year >> and what do you think people can do if they're feeling lonely, out of control, they don't know what their future's going to hold. Like what's the first step, you know, that somebody can take to kind of get themselves out of that rut? One of the first is realizing that all of this social media and stuff is a placebo of relationships and it doesn't actually fulfill your your primal need for belonging and connection with people. And the second part is develop just an in you know we we have you heard of locus of control? >> I haven't. So a person with an internal locus of control says I decide what happens in my life. I'm in charge of the outcomes. It's my fault if something goes wrong. And an external locus of control is kind of like the world happens to me. So like my control center is all out there. So obviously people who are successful have that internal locus of control and they're in charge. But there's also an internal locus of self-esteem. So, where does my self-esteem come from? Does it come from in here or comments on social media or something like that? And I see your YouTube plaque back there. I've got a a bunch of those here. And like if I allowed those those really positive comments and that that's my source of esteem that's the same exact window that opens to for the negative comments to come in and just make me feel like so that means I have an external locus of self-esteem. If your self-esteem is internally derived then there's nothing external that can really happen. So that would be number one is I'm going to start doing everything I can to not allow this positive things out here to influence how I feel about me and all the negative things can't influence me either. So that is an internal self-esteem locus. So step two is developing that sense of personal discipline and we can dig into that if you want to do that and there are some proven ways to absolutely do that and that ways that nobody's talking about. >> Yeah, I would love to get into like how you can kind of hack your brain to become more disciplined. But first like following up on what you just said. I think it's so true. However, I think it's much easier said than done because I do think that in many ways like external validation and praise can be a great metric for how you're doing in life. Like, you know, I I see the views and subscribers and stuff on YouTube and it's like, okay, I'm on the right track. However, you know, if I let that be the basis of how I feel about myself, it can be a very slippery slope. So how can people get how can people develop a better relationship with external validation and and not be how can people develop a better relationship with the external and feel good about themselves without focusing on that? >> Yeah. So the it starts with one thing and that is when I see positive or negative information does that help me act or feel? So it should be acting. So it I should act a different way because I'm using these YouTube comments or YouTube metrics. Is it influencing how I feel about me? Is it changing my self-worth? And if I receive love, if I need, sorry, if I need love from strangers, that means my door is open to hate as well. And these are absolute strangers who should never dictate a single ounce of your self-esteem or how you feel about yourself. So feeling great about it and you can feel good, but it dictating your self-worth is absolutely toxic. And it's pretty easy to start just kind of getting that into your mind on a regular basis when I'm reading the comments, I'm reading, I don't know, messages on social media. If I allow that to change my self-esteem, something is wrong. But it should be I don't know this person. I I wouldn't invite them into my house at this point. they they also shouldn't be invited into my head. So if if you wouldn't allow them in your in your around your kids, hanging around your house, they don't belong in your head either. >> Well, and I think the the thing that takes over is this dopamine trap, right? I know you talk a lot about dopamine and how the most successful people in the world, they like know how to harness their dopamine, not let it get out of control. like talk more about what you mean by that and what are some things people can do to have a really healthy relationship with dopamine. >> Your source of dopamine, your number one source of dopamine should be you. Not your kids, not your wife, not your family. It should be you and your actions. And we'll get into that in the discipline part. But what most people don't do, like if you just get like a simple journal. So like if you just get like a blank page in your journal and you kind of draw out it looks like a basketball court. So I'm going to do a circle in the middle here and then I'm going to write down all the places in my life I get dopamines that and and I'm going to be honest. I'm going to put Instagram comments, alcohol or drugs or pornography or you know all these places that people are getting dopamine from. I'm going to write that down. And then what I do with all of my clients is on a one to 100 or you have a 100 points and you have to spend all 100 points, but you have to put a point value on where you're getting your dopamine from. So, and that's typically the first time ever in somebody's life where they've actually mapped out where their pleasure is coming from, not happiness. Dopamine is not happiness. Dopamine is pleasure. And most people confuse the difference between those two. So if I have a score of 10 for throwing the ball for my dogs or playing with my kids or things that I should that should be higher and the score for alcohol is like 65, you've never like once people see that metric, it is very very hard to ignore. So the step two is like where where should the dopamine be? So here's where it is. Now, I'm going to draw a little map and on the next sheet of paper, we're going to draw a new map and start, you know, drawing an arrow from the negative to the positive. Like where I'm going to borrow dopamine from this location. Maybe you don't have to quit all the way. I'm just going to borrow some points. So, at least these two are equal. And that's that's the next step. I'm going to get this from a 12 on this and this one's like a 50. I'm going to find out the midpoint of that and borrow dopamine from the high dopamine area. Does that make sense? >> Totally. And what what have you found to be the most like effective things for having a healthy dopamine score? Like what are the things that people can do for themselves that keep their dopamine at the most healthy level? >> Well, that that goes straight into the discipline thing if you're ready to talk about it. Y. >> So when I said that like your number one source of dopamine needs to be yourself, there are a few things you can do. The number one thing when we talk about discipline, the definition of discipline is that no one talks about your ability to prioritize the needs of your future self ahead of your own. And that's all it is. Can I prioritize future me above my present self? So over time, I'm going to try to do things on a repetitive basis as often as possible to where future me is getting some kind of reward. I might set up the coffee maker the night before. I might put clothes out for myself. I might just put a thing on my phone that reminds me in certain times. And this is shortterm, right? So these are small little things. It's springtime right now as you and I are recording this or spring has just started. And I might go into my winter jackets that we're about to take out of this closet and kind of put it down in the basement for a while and put a $100 bill in one of those and write maybe write a note to myself on there. So the more actions I can take to set up my future self for success, the more once that success comes, I'm looking backwards to my past tense self, not with regret, but with gratitude. That's the most important shift to make. And I'm going to continuously do this. I'm essentially acting like a butler except I'm doing it for myself. I am the butler of my future self. And this isn't just like folding clothes and setting up coffee. This is how we spend money. The food that we're eating, the the stuff we're buying at a grocery store is all going to dictate am I prioritizing me now or me later? And a lot of people never really have this conversation of where are my priorities? And they're typically when people are not really getting the results they want out of life, their priorities are now, here, and now, and maybe a little bit in the future, but they're not really prioritizing all the things that are happening in the line. So, what happens is my daily interactions are a I'm looking backwards or I'm anticipating stuff that my past tense self has set up for me. I've got dopamine coming in, anticipation, and drive to start setting my future self up. And I'm getting dopamine to get stuff from my past tense self. So, I'm getting dopamine from both directions of versions of me. And that is the the most powerful way that we can start doing that. And just the way to do this, there's not like here's 17, you know, super cool tricks to do this or some formula. You just do it as much as you can and you rate yourself every single day. How did I do? Where were my priorities today? And it takes 10 seconds to put it in a notebook or journal, calendar, whatever. And you put it down. And just the act of rating yourself and bringing it into your conscious awareness is the fastest way to get that process into your life. Because it's the same thing like when you buy a new car and you start seeing it all over the place. I'm just repetitively exposing myself to that level of awareness. And you don't need to change anything. Your mamalian part of your brain is going to do that for you. >> And what have you found to be the most like common things that people need to rep prioritize in their lives as far as like working on their future self? >> The most common is probably time management and environment management. Like if you're thinking that you're going to be a multi-millionaire or you want to run a company or something like that and you can't organize your office or your desk or and you can't keep your area clean, like you can't even pick up after yourself. Every time that you go out and you want to look like a CEO, you want to look like a leader, you're going to know there's a part of your brain dedicated to knowing that you're faking it. And that's where we have inongruent behavior. And that's how we we make these gut feelings in other people. We have this conversation, everything looks great. We follow that LinkedIn article that we read of 14 ways to look more confident and command respect like a leader and that person kind of gets a gut feeling and the gut feeling is like something's not right, something's not adding up. So no matter what we do, we're sending off these small signals. So, environment, time, appearance, and appearance is like my hygiene, all of that stuff that might signal that I'm an authority to other people. So, environment, time, appearance, social skills, and social is one of the ways that we should be getting dopamine and we're not. We're getting it from social media instead of my closer circle of friends, my next door neighbors that live next to my house, the people that live across the street. The people in 3D are where most of your social dopamine should come from 3D human beings and not 2D human beings, people that you know. And financial is the last one. >> So, I was somebody that was incarcerated on felony drug charges. I share that because one of the hardest things I had to do was completely change my identity and transform into this new version of myself. And I think it's so challenging for people because, you know, for me, I was so used to being a failure. My brain was convinced that I was going to fail at life because before I was in jail, I failed at everything. And so how can people like quickly or efficiently kind of trick their brain into becoming that new version of themselves when the old version of themselves has been beaten down over and over and over again. There's a couple of things it's and that always comes down to confidence. If I have a lot of self-doubt, that's going to be a big one. But even bigger than self-doubt is shame and self- judgment. And you know, most judgment is us kind of casting that off onto other people. So the the fastest way, and there's no hack for this, but the fastest way to do this is to become so self forgiving that people would think that you're crazy, like you're bat crazy because you're so forgiving of yourself. Because shame and the fear of shame is what holds people back from really doing that stuff. And when it comes to confidence that there's two main elements of confidence and that number one is radical radical self forgiveness. Like who gives a crap what happened in the past? Just radical to the point where it's insane. Cuz if you're feeling down, you're in the dumps, like you're a little you're doubting yourself all the time, that's already delusional. You're already delusional. So just pick delusions in the other direction and be more delusionally self-forgiving. The part two of that confidence is a generalized, it does not need to be specific, but a very generalized expectation that things are going to be okay. And just those two things, you will drastically just shed so much weight that you notice like so many people carry this stuff around like shame about some thing that happened like when they were 20 or when they were in in high school. If you get to the point of radical forgiveness for other people and for yourself, you get to a point of I have confidence. But I would say the third part is stop waiting for permission because a lot of people are waiting for some signal once my bank account reaches this much once people respect me and I can prove that to myself they they'll just wait on these little milestones. And those milestones act as little permission slips for us to feel confident. And they're they're completely artificial. They're absolutely placeos. They don't do anything to make you more confident. It's just a placebo. So there is no one coming to give you permission. You've just got to give it to yourself. And speaking of being radical and confident, you know, I think one of the tough things, and again, this is just speaking from my own experience and people I've talked to, is like when when you're kind of on the come up and your life isn't where it wants to be. You have this kind of cognitive dissonance going on that's like, well, my finances aren't where they are, my relationships aren't, my health isn't, but I'm on the journey up. And it's like, how do I become confident even though my circumstances are crap? Like how can people become like delusionally confident when they're out trying to make it, introducing themselves to other people even though their life at home isn't where it wants to be. >> Yeah. And that that goes back to do I manage my environment, my time, appearance, social, financial. And if those things are on the up, like you you're actually taking care of yourself, you're living life how you really want to live it, but you're it doesn't matter what the metrics are. If you're doing the right things and you're living off camera, so not not not your results, but your behavior when you're off camera will dictate how people feel about you. So, if you try to act confident and you're feeling insecure about all of this stuff because you haven't made your bed, you didn't get up early, you don't have a lot of discipline, but you're trying to give this appearance of confidence or discipline out in public, you've got to start living that way off camera. So, that's it's just a natural thing. And most people view confidence as something that you do. Like, it's a thing that I do. And all it is is removal of things. It's not adding in anything. So, the biggest lesson I ever learned in my lifetime training operatives and stuff is that confidence is not additive. Like, I don't need to add things to you to to to get you to be confidence. I need you to remove this fear of social judgment. This is why public speaking is the number one fear. And second, I really need you to remove this self shame and all this crap that you're carrying for no reason. It doesn't make you a better person at all. It doesn't make you a better person to feel ashamed of stuff. It makes you a worse person. It makes you less effective and it makes you more judgmental of other people. And the the final element of this is composure. And when most people go out and try to be confident, they're either in posturing mode or collapse mode. So in posturing mode, someone's like puffed their chest out, they speak louder than they they normally would, and they try to overdo confidence. And then the collapse mode is I'm going to shrink so other people feel more comfortable around me. But I think the middle of that is just composure is the word I would have for that. So just make composure like this daily practice. And composure is is the fastest route when it comes to practicing things. Composure is the fastest route to confidence. >> Yeah. The puffing the chest out. It's kind of like the invisible lat syndrome. be familiar with that where Pete where guys will like walk around like this just to give the impression that they're they're bigger than they actually are as far as their upper body. You talked about composure which I think it gets into like how can you be more comfortable in difficult situations. You know, what have you found to be like a hack or something that you've worked on yourself or with the people that you've trained to help people practice becoming more composed, you know, during difficult situations. So there's a few things and we the first we have to understand like the neuroscience of this and why that works and we we have this mamalian part of our brain this limbic system that kind of governs 99% of our life. So we think that we're in charge and this this animal brain is actually in charge and most people need to realize that that part of our brain doesn't speak English. It can't read affirmations at all. like there's no language ability in that part of our brain. So when it comes to coming into life and trying to get more composure in conversations and having that that level of discipline where you're kind of a lot more in charge, you're not in charge of the room, you're in charge of yourself. Mistake number one that destroys 90% of people, the f the biggest mistake, and I've never heard anybody else say this is thinking in terms of hierarchy and status. So, am I above or below this other person? And the the first step to that is, am I willing to agree to treat everyone equally? This means that if I meet Jeff Bezos tomorrow, I'm going to treat him the exact same way as I treat a Starbucks barista. Everybody gets the same. There's no hierarchy. I'm going to I'm going to be the same to every person that I talk to. And that level of consistency sets the stage for that level of composure. So to going into that mamalian part of this uh it's a practice. So composure is a a lifelong practice but you get good at it by making your body get involved first. So our brains are hardwired to kind of compare with other animals and stuff. So with other other humans and the moment you get in a conversation, the way that you should permanently change the way you compare yourself is slowness and movement. And am I willing to be the slowest person in the room? And am I willing to be more relaxed than the other person? That's it. Those are those are the only things. Doesn't matter if it's this multi-million dollar potential client on a sales call or the barista at Starbucks, they're going to be identical. I'm going to be slower than the other person, more relaxed, treat everybody the same. And that is the fastest way to do that. And then kind of rating yourself at the end of the day. How did I do on a one to 10 on composure? Was I more in collapse? Was did I lean into the posturing side? And definitely absolutely rating yourself every day is going to bring more and more awareness. And of course it's kitschy and it's something that's all over the internet. But mindfulness, this practice of mindfulness throughout the day. Just because it's all over the damn place. There's a reason for that. It doesn't mean we should dismiss it. It's absolutely powerful, especially when it comes to composure and and leadership and authority. What have you found to be the the number one thing that people struggle with as far as being uncomfortable? >> You mean in in social settings? >> Yeah. Like what's the the the biggest thing that you find people to be uncomfortable with? >> I I think it is a fear of future judgment. So it's imagining some kind of social judgment. And we're we're tribal animals. And if a a large number of people in our tribe a million years ago started judging us and and making fun of us, we could be outcast. We're not going to have sex. We're not going to have babies. And then our genes die. And this is one of the reasons public speaking is the number one fear. We're not afraid of speaking in public. We're afraid of the potential for judgment. And that's a two-part thing. So the moment I am thinking about the potential for judgment my brain automatically defaults to saying if there's a potential for judgment that also means that I need to manage how I am perceived. So this leads to there's a potential fear of judgment I'm going to change how I'm acting to to where everything's good. I'm going to manage everything a lot more which makes us less us. which which sends off a little vibe to people that's like something's not right. There's something not really fully adding up. And then we see more skeptical facial expressions or more doubting. So it changes who we are. It makes us more self-managing and more self-managing. So we get out of that that need like judgment's not going to hurt me. Your brain is wired to equate the fear of judgment with the same as being attacked by a saber-tooth tiger. So the fastest way to get your brain to understand this is the phrase there are no tigers. And it's going to remind you that this is a mamalian response system that is outdated and a lot of our society has outd kind of outpaced our brain's ability to adapt to it. So just kind of that reminder there are no tigers. And the second is start like a daily practice of worrying less and less about perception management because people are looking a lot less than you think. Everybody's thinking how what are they seeing? How are they judging me? They're they probably don't care and it's not going to matter. It will never matter at the end of the day. >> Do you think there are things that people can do that like force them like naturally to embrace discomfort? I mean, I know one of the things that's helped me is like the cold plunge, sauna, like doing like intense workouts. Like there's a big trend for that now and they're linking it to getting better at managing stress and being better in social settings. Like to be found anything like that to be instrumental. >> Yeah, those are are proven to work. I mean, the first study on it on it managing mental health stress was like 1951. They were studying dudes in like Norway and Sweden where there's like saunas everywhere. and why they were so emotionally resilient to stress. And this was in they were measuring it in combat and soldiers returning from combat and how the saunas and and cold water helped manage stress and those are fantastic. Another one to add on to that is just getting into a practice of yoga, which a lot of people don't associate with that, but if you have a good yoga instructor, they're going to walk you through this little yoga session and they're going to remind you like when you're feeling a little bit uncomfortable, they're going to tell you to smile. They're going to tell you to breathe slower and and smile through that whole process. And it is fantastic at helping somebody manage just mind. I'm mindful. I'm in the moment. I'm continuing to breathe through discomfort and your brain starts learning these habits. So that is definitely Doug, you hit it on the head right there. >> I think that one of the the things that people are really I think one of the things that people really struggle with is fear. And fear like really like can trap them from making a decision. Fear can trap them from going out and changing their life. And it can just be completely overwhelming. I know we've kind of touched on, you know, some of this stuff already, but like if somebody came to you and they're like, "Hey, like Chase, like I want to I want the the bulletproof way to crush fear so that it doesn't let me so it doesn't like overpower me and prevent me from like living my best life." Like what can they do? >> Well, the the first way is to start identifying all of those fears because every fear is like I don't want to go out in public. I'm scared of going in public. Well, why? I have a fear of judgment. And then we go, why is that? And why is that? And you kind of get back to like, well, in middle school, I got made fun of or in high school this thing happened. And starting to get aware. The awareness is the fastest way to start getting some of these things unwired and living in a way where you know that this is kind of a a simulation. And you're kind of gifying your own life by taking these notes every day. We're living in a way that I'm kind of in a video game and I want I want to level up my character. I'm going to live in a way that is as fearless as possible. So to get out of those fears, the fastest way to do that is to really really dig down on each one of those and figure out what it was. I have a system actually if if you do PDFs or show notes, I'll just send you the PDF and you can stick it in the description below the video that all of our intelligence operators go through to assess their level of authority and what's what's really holding them back in their life. And it's free. It's it's called the authority assessment inventory. And that's one of the fastest ways. And if you if you think even if you're not religious, if there's any belief in your mind that says all of these ancient texts might contain some stuff that's really powerful and some really good wisdom, whether it's the the teachings of Judaism or Christianity or reading Hindu texts like the Bhagavad Gita or the Upanishads and I mispronounced that. I have no no doubt I mispronounced that. But all of these texts have these things in common. And even just zooming in on one of those, like the the Bible, the most common phrase in the entire Bible is do not fear. It's the most recurring phrase in the entire Bible. It's 365 times reminding you not to be afraid of anything. It's not a big deal. Nothing is a big deal. And it's every single ancient text that seems to reflect that there's some truth with a lowercase T in all of these. And there may may not be one absolute truth. But I think that even Plato before Christianity was even around. Plato wrote about this and wrote about the folly and and waking up from kind of the simulation and realizing that it kind of is a game with the Plato's allegory of the cave wrote about this a long time ago way before Christianity was around. But no matter what book you look at, if it's an ancient text and this ancient wisdom, every single thing that you see is telling us that we're all kind of like one thing. Don't be scared of anything in your life and just kind of go forward and and don't be a douchebag. We're all one thing and don't be scared. That's kind of the main theme of all these books. And I think just living your starting to live your life that way is such a powerful move. And how can I be less fearful? >> Is the system rigged to keep people in their 20s and 30s stuck in their head, stuck in life forever? I think the this is a we're going deep pretty fast. So I think the system is not necessarily rigged as if there's one puppet master, one guy holding the the strings and all this stuff. I think it's many many things and maybe twothirds of it is just the algorithms that are pushing profit. But when it comes down to you want to get anyone stuck, there's three steps that you need to do to get people stuck. And that's PDS. That is pacify, distract, and sedate. Pacify. So we're like pacify you as much as possible. Distract you as much as we can and then sedate you. And if you look at the rise of things that people are doing in life that are anesthetic quality, not just like drugs, but um people looking at porn and video games are up. VR is is through the roof. And that becomes kind of an anesthetic for our life. But if we look at modern tactics of this SCOP that is happening to keep people stuck, it starts with one thing called flooding. So we want to drown out the real signals that are uh with overwhelming noise. This is memes and drama and fake news and riots. I want to I want to drown out as much as I can. Just overwhelm. And then it's repetition. So I want to repeat a message enough and it becomes an internalized truth for people and then the next step is mimicry. So the way that it's working now and when I say SCOPS I'm not talking about the US army. I'm talking about a psychological operation. I just want to put that out there. But they now imitate everyday content. And this is Tik Tok that Instagram posts influence and and stuff like that. And then we have gamification. So the next step of this, the the final two steps are are the biggest. The gamification is where we make ideology feel like a lifestyle or a team sport. Uh and that's big. And then just to seal it in, we use false consensus. So we use a bunch of bots or fake accounts to simulate popular opinion. And once that's happening, we get people who can't really grow up. And I think the biggest layer, this is a super nuanced answer, but the biggest layer is if you look at Maslo's hierarchy of needs, it's this little triangle. We have like survival and then safety and then love and belonging, and then we have like self-esteem and all the other stuff. But the love and belonging, that's our social need. And what we have on social media now, we have this Tik Tok, Facebook, you know, whatever you want to say. Our brains are not capable, 100% not capable of managing a social network that large. And the social media serves as a placebo of fulfilling that social need. So what happens is our brains are thinking that we're getting that social fulfillment, but we can never go past it, which means we never get to esteem. We never get an actual fulfillment of that. We get these dopamine hits that feel like social connection, but they're not. It's not satisfying that ancestral part of our brain. So, it is stuck in that place. And massively, what happens as a result of that is I can't have empathy for every bad thing that goes on around the world. It's not possible for anybody. Uh, so we see people in outrage about one or two things, but the there's a guy that maybe got murdered two blocks away from their house. They don't have time to deal with that because they're worried about Ukraine or they're worried about something else going on. So now that we have so much overload of social connection and negative news, we have apathy. And and I I do believe that this is an engineered apathy and that's the that's the real cause of all this. So, do you think there's a way out? >> I do. I make videos about this on my channel all the time. And I think the way out is not just like go live in a cave and like become Amish. It's like throw your your iPad in the trash. I think the way out is starting to realize what is simulated and what's not in your life. Then where are we looking at a label of something and thinking that that's the thing, the word is the thing? Where am I looking at social connection on Facebook and and tricking myself into thinking it's real? Because what this has made us do is pretend. And all of us just fallen into this trap of I need to fake something. I need to pretend like I've got all my together. Like we see all of these videos online of these content creators, like everything looks good in the background, but you go to their normal life, their off camerara life, it's absolutely falsified. So the way that we do this is we realize what's fake in our life and where we are pretending. And the biggest thing that's been engineered over the last few years is this fear of social injury. And that is weaponized. If you look at like the the biggest fear of people is public speaking, but it's actually judgment. So the the fear of judgment has been weaponized. And we talked about this like with your first question, stop being a victim to the fear of judgment is the biggest thing. And even even if you're just starting small, just be okay with receiving a a social injury once or twice. And be okay with being non-perfect. And if you're watching the news on a regular basis, I would say that is a that's worse than in my opinion, I would say that's worse than like smoking a few packs of cigarettes for your health and for your mental well-being. I would say like if you're watching the news, that would be step one is like I haven't watched the news in probably nine years, eight or nine years. And it's amazing. But if something's going to happen here, my neighbors going to text me. My family's going to say, "Hey, did you see this thing that happened? Maybe I'll see some events that are important." But our brains are not wired to handle a world full of news. Our brains are wired to handle a hundred people max, maybe 150. And that little tribe is what we're supposed to handle. And we're tricking ourselves because our brains have not evolved in 200,000 years. And how can people have like a nuanced relationship or is that possible? Like meaning like I heard you say that social media creates this false sense of connection and yet I think people want to still figure out how can I stay informed? How can I stay connected to people online that I may or may not be friends with? And then the same thing with the news where they're like, hey, like probably shouldn't be watching the news every night before I go to bed. And I also want to stay informed with what's going on. like is there a way to have a healthy balance with these things so that it doesn't wreck people's lives? >> I I don't think I'm the expert. I'm I'm the guy that studies how it damages us and how and I'm not even studying it for health reasons. I'm studying it because I teach interrogation. I teach people how to make people do things that are not in their best interest. Then this is getting someone to confess to a crime. This is uh or if they think it's not in their best interest. So if somebody has a severe uh depression and they go see a psychologist, they think getting rid of that which is a part of themselves is not in their best interest. So this is this is what I really study. But I think the balance comes down to awareness, a deep deep awareness. Because Papa Carl, as as we call him in all of my trainings online, Carl Jung famously said, until you make the unconscious conscious, it will control your life and you will call it fate. And most of what we think is our fate is just a bunch of running in in the background, a bunch of unconscious stuff that's going on that we're not aware of. So getting hyper aware of your screen time, getting hyper aware of where I feel this need to pretend and why do we still need to pretend? Social media has hijacked this thing. So we fear social injury. So getting hyper aware is step one. There's not like you need to wake up at 5 and take a cold shower and take zinc and magnesium and all this like perfect morning routine. Just make the in your life that's unconscious. Bring it as much as you can to the surface and do it on a regular basis. And keep in mind that the mamalian brain that makes all of our decisions and that governs our whole life doesn't speak English. You will never affirmation your way out of this stuff. Like that's using language is not the right way to do it. Using awareness is we have this part of our brain called the the reticular formation. People online commonly refer to it as a reticular activating system. So, in in your brain, if if Doug is searching for white 2025 white Toyota 4Erunner TRD Pro, then you've got all these specifics and stuff, then you finally go and buy one. The day you start driving it, you're going to see it everywhere. You're going to be like, "Whoa, everybody's got the same car as me." And that's not because you told your brain using language to do that. the biggest changes in our life when we fall in love, we watch our kid get born. Um, all of these big things that happen in our life, these big shifts in our unconscious are never rooted in the use of language. So, how can I get the awareness up there so much that I'm telling that reticular formation in the brain that this is very important so that the mamalian side of our brain starts searching for it? What do you think is a good like first step for someone who is like in this simulation and on autopilot and they're just used to doing the same stuff over and over again? They're scrolling social media. They're not taking care of their health. Like what's the first thing they can do to develop start to develop this hyper self-awareness? >> So the number one thing is disruption. Anytime you want to start deprogramming someone or even brainwashing someone either way, back or or backwards or forwards, you want to start with destabilization and some kind of agitation with lifestyle. So, if I expect something, I need to disrupt the expectation. I'm going to wake up. I'm going to brush my teeth maybe with my left hand. I'm going to repaint my bedroom and move my furniture around. I'm going to routinely do things that disrupt the scripts that I'm following through my life. So, if the script if one of my scripts is scrolling on Instagram for an hour, maybe couple hours a day, I'm going to set a time limit. There's like if you look at the new iPhone, you can set app time limits and stuff on your on yourself. And I don't mean that I can't reopen the app, but I'm just going to disrupt the script when that time limit thing pops up. I'm going to do everything I can to start disrupting those routine scripts in my everyday life. One of the things I've had my clients do is there's this uh stuff that uh physiootherapists use called KT tape. You ever heard of that stuff? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> So, it's like stretchy stuff. It's got two sticky ends on it and it's kind of like to pull the fascia away from muscles. I'm probably making that up. I'm not an expert. But just putting that on your body, uh, no matter where you put it is going to refocus your energy throughout the entire day. So just having like pulling your chest apart or having it to where like if you slouch it, it's going to like tighten up. That's going to tell your brain over and over without English, without any words. it's going to tell your brain over and over something is different, something is new, you need to pay attention. So the the fastest way to break out of the scripts is to start disrupting them on a regular basis. And I think that sometimes people when they hear what we're talking about or they have this gut feeling that the world is quote unquote against them or they've they're wired to fail or whatever, they fall into like the victim mindset. Like how would you how do you how would you like interrogate yourself or what questions would you ask to be able to snap yourself out of a rut like that and escape the victim mindset? >> That is so so tough, especially when it's a behavioral pattern. I would say the fastest way to do it is listen to the expert on a regular basis. And I would say that's like Jaco Willink uh can can snap you out faster than Chase Hughes ever could. But if you want to snap out of any kind of rut like that and you see yourself kind of going into this victim mindset, that is amazing and you should celebrate that because 99% of people aren't even aware that they're in it. So if you've got to that point where you realize that I might be, you know, victimizing myself, you need to get out of that mindset, but the fastest way is I need to start disrupting scripts. Because even if you watch Jaco all day, every day, you read all of Jaco's books, you're running on scripts. So we're running on autopilot 10 times more than we think we are. Throughout our entire day, we're running these autopilot script from our behavioral patterns. So no matter what we read, remember that's language. We have to disrupt patterns so that the brain pays attention. So we have to do things differently where the brain has no more ability to predict the future. I think when sometimes people are trying to get momentum, like journaling or even like putting their thoughts out there, setting goals can help, you know, what what do you think are some of the most important like questions someone should ask themselves or uh important maybe like journaling prompts like if you were trying to, you know, get someone to snap out of that behavior change and be consistent with how they're moving forward in life. Some of the most important questions to raise are what are the things I do automatically every day? Like what are the things I'm doing automatically and how can I start breaking out of that? But second is what are the things that make me emotional? What are the things that I get upset about? And that's where we're going to find those little identity fragments. And Carl Jung talks about this so much that I have my office is just like full of of Carl Jung's books. What I really want to do is on a repetitive basis, what am I doing? Not just on autopilot, but how am I judging other people? And that number one is going to help you start identifying those unconscious patterns of like I have I'm carrying some kind of secret concealed shame that I don't want anybody to know about. Um, and when people are concealing shame and guilt, the the biggest thing is they think that they're the only one. Um, But I can tell you that this is 100% of people are doing this and whether or not you feel bad about it is is the measure. So where am I judging other people and where am I carrying some kind of hidden shame and that the hard part about the the hidden shame part is that some people will carry this hidden shame and they will feel like me feeling bad about this one thing that happened in middle school or this thing that happened a couple of years ago. If I feel bad about it, that makes me a good person. That's the biggest load of that that you could ever hold inside of your brain. Feeling bad about something does does not make you a good person. >> Yeah. And it's tough because I think that a lot of times, like going back to this victim mindset, I think people will use their past as a way to justify current behavior. They'll say, "Well, I was picked on in school. My parents got divorced. I mean, I did all of this and I wound up in jail." And they people end up using these excuses as a way to justify how they act now. And it's tough because their brain is now convinced them that it's okay to behave that way because they're used to getting people patting them on the back and telling them it's okay. And the Saab story is there's commodity in that. >> There there really is. And I think if you look at it from a different angle, that's the first big thing that we all need to do is I need to take my little GoPro that's normally stuck way behind my head and put it out in front of my eyes and start changing my perspective. This is why like just a shift in perspective can solve depression and it can it can help people with PTSD and all kinds of other things. This is why that we're starting to see that psychedelic therapy is like one of the most effective things ever tested. >> Well, and I think it's tough because people for decades like they they are just used to seeing like one perspective having one view of the world and they've essentially kind of manipulated their own perception of of reality and it just takes so much work to to snap out of it. And it and it's tough like how how do you think people can be consistent with it when they have been inconsistent for years and they're just somebody that has had the same like type of worldview for a period of time and they're trying to like make that shift to be consistent with behavior change. >> If they're trying to change themselves, the number one thing that we can do is is form a a visual relationship with your future self. And this sounds maybe we talked about it on the last podcast. I don't remember, but you you get you download an app that makes you look like a 95y old and you do that thing. You take the selfie, you look looking at it and it makes like AI warps your face or I don't know how it works, but you print that sucker out and you put it on your fridge. You put it on everywhere you want it to you want to be reminded. And so most people don't prioritize our future selves because we have no ability to visualize them. They're hard to think about. But what we're doing is not using language. We're not using affirmations. We're showing the mammal part of our brain what we want to focus on and where we want to place priority. So if I want to be consistent, the only reason I fail to be consistent is because I'm prioritizing myself right now. What do I want? What does present tense me want right now? And we're saying f you to the the future tense version of us. So shift number one to make to to make so many changes in your life is can I teach my mamalian brain to start forming a prioritized relationship with future me? How could you could you do that with like situations like, you know, I imagine if somebody is like in a relationship and they're acting disrespectfully to their partner, like would there be a way to like look at like a future version of that relationship or someone who's addicted to drugs and they're like, "Hey, what's my life going to be like in 10 years?" Like is can that app do something similar or would you like have to almost like draw a completely different picture? I think that our brain is is wired to go against things a lot more than it is towards something positive. It's it's made to go away from something negative. If you look at at our ancestors, they were way more likely to confuse a stick for a snake than a snake for a stick. So, we're our brains default to negative to keep us safe. So, if if you're trying to avoid something, maybe printing two versions of that picture out. One where you're missing some teeth, maybe somebody's on drugs or something, or one where you're uh morbidly obese and 85 or 90 years old. Uh, a lot of those can help the mamillian brain say, "I don't want that." Because our brain, people are saying like you're programming your brain all the time. But if your brain doesn't like something, it's going to be repulsed by that. And I know that you're not if you're putting negative stuff into your brain on a very regular basis. It's very hard to just want that negative thing. You're not going to drive toward it automatically. So keep in mind, our brains are wired to move away from negative stimuli. And so we just create that negative stimuli to help us form that relationship with the future self. >> So from a on a day-to-day basis like kind of bringing this together like we've got companies and things that have created this simulation for people to feel like they're stuck or even more stuck than they actually are in their life. And then you have these people that are trying to change and they're watching your content. Maybe they're listening to this episode and they're like, "Hey, you know, I realized my relationship with social media is unhealthy. I probably should change my friends. I probably should put the substances down. I should probably work out." Like all the things. And yet they're up against this battle that exists that's way more powerful than they are, right? How can people navigate that on like a dayto-day basis? like what would that framework look like so that they are working towards self-improvement and yet but yet they're not letting this you know sigh up kind of affect them while they're on their way. I think that from a day-to-day basis the the main thing that a person can do to start getting out of this rut is a developing that future self relationship where mamlian brain sees it. That is number one. But number two is just making the unconscious conscious. So let's go back to that for just a second with with this new question. If I am if I know that I need a new friend network, there's part of me that I'm not really aware of that I need to make more aware in my brain. So I need to like write all this stuff out. Maybe I need to build a spreadsheet. Maybe it's some visual thing that I need to do. I need to make these problems as crystal clear to my conscious brain as I possibly can. So, if I'm on social media today, maybe I'll go to Michaels or Walmart and I'm going to get a big poster. I'll draw a little grid on there and with a big Sharpie, I'm going to go up there every day. I'm I'm going to write how many hours because your phone tracks it all. I'm going to write my screen time on this big board. The stuff that we used to just unconsciously pursue is now getting forced closer and closer and closer to conscious awareness. That is the fastest way you can do it. Because if I want to manipulate you, if I'm running a scop against a country of any size, the first thing I want you to do is pacify, distract, sedate, those things. So all of the negative behaviors, all the things that I want you to be doing are happening unconsciously. And the fastest way to do that is just to get someone to do something on a regular basis. And second, get you to believe that lots of people are doing it so I can normalize the behavior.
