Your small self is dying. The old you that kept you stuck, that kept you small, that kept you believing that you weren't worthy, that you weren't good enough. It's dying. And rightfully so. Because this you, this small self, was never the true you. It was never actually you to begin with. It was a version of you that was constructed in your mind based off of the the beliefs that were programmed into you from the people around you as a child. And you are not this small self. You are not small. The real you, the true you, is big. Is willing to take up space. Is willing to be seen, to be heard. Is willing to speak his or her truth. The real you is authentic as it gets. The real you does not allow him or herself to be pushed over. The real you does what he or she wants. Regardless of what anybody may think. The real you follow follows your heart. The real you attracts what is meant for you. And when you can let go of this small self, this false self, and embody your truth, and remember who you are in truth, life is good. Everything that's meant for you will find you. You are just a more authentic expression of who you truly are. And and by doing so, by being who you truly are, speaking your truth, doing what your heart is guiding you to do. When you do that, you find the right people, the right places, the right things, the right opportunities, and life can get so much better than you can possibly imagine. All it takes is having faith, trusting in that vision that has been planted in your heart, following your heart first and foremost, and trusting that vision, trusting that dream, whatever it may be for you, whether it's starting a business, starting a family, traveling, whatever it may be. We all have a vision, we all have a dream that has been planted in our hearts that we are moving towards, and to trust that vision, and allow yourself to be un- deniably you as you move towards the thing. And again, as you allow yourself to just be yourself, to be fully relentlessly authentic, and be you as you, and and allow this small self to fall away, notice the moments in your life where you contract, where you feel small, where you don't feel seen, where you don't feel heard. And notice the the beliefs associated with that. Notice the the the the paradigms, the the programs inside of you that are making you feel small, that are making you feel as if you're not good enough, that as if you can't have the thing that you need to suffer in order to earn love or acceptance or whatever it may be. These are all false beliefs about us that have been programmed into us. And to again, allow that self to fall away, and feel into your heart. Feel into what is true. Feel into where you're being guided. Notice the state of being where you feel so lit up. The things that make you feel alive and just in your essence. That is the state of being. That is the true you. That is your true state of being. And you're not only meant to feel that occasionally. That is meant to be your default state of being. That is your essence. That is who you are. The things you love to do and the way you feel doing those things. That is you. That is your essence. That is who you are. So, follow that. Trust your heart. Trust the vision. And know that it's always always all working out for you. So, this is one last message before you allow yourself to be big, to take up space, to to follow your dreams, to chase your dreams, to be you, to undeniably be yourself, to express yourself authentically. And then attract the people, the things, the places that are meant for you. Because when you express yourself authentically, then and only then can those people, the people that are meant to find you, find you. Cuz if you don't put yourself out there, if you don't allow yourself to be yourself and express authentically, you can't attract the people. You can't put the the signal out there for the people to find you. So, you need to allow yourself to be big, to be yourself, to let go of that small self. And and and you reality will begin. One that is much more aligned, much more in flow, much more authentic, much more true to who you are. I love you all. I'll see you in the next one. Peace.
