Hello inferson. This is Anton. And for decades, astronomers looked to the stars in order to discover some kind of an intelligent life out there. I'm of course referring to the project known as Sati, search for extraterrestrial intelligence. But it turns out that a slightly different project referred to as project SETI with the letter C, not S, has actually been focusing on something deep inside our oceans. And well, they've actually found it. Turns out some of the most complex communication systems known to us might have been right here in the oceans all along, which is essentially what we're going to be discussing today. And if you're not going to watch the whole video and just want to learn something super quick, here's a quick factoid. Apparently, whale language seems to have a very similar structure to Chinese. Huh. But anyway, let's discuss this in a little bit more detail and talk about a lot of different studies from the last few months because we've actually had a lot of research focusing on slightly different things, but basically coming to a somewhat similar conclusion. Whale communication is way more complex than we thought and involves complexity we've never seen in any other animals except for well us. Their communication seems to be just as complex as our own with the biggest breakthrough being the discovery of the whale phenology. They essentially use vowels. But we'll discuss this in a few minutes. Let's actually start with this or let's actually start with the assumption we used to have. We used to think of whale sounds as just simple calls or as a kind of a whale morse code. In other words, researchers believe that their clicks are just like Morse code and possibly have some meaning but not a lot of meaning. Yet, turns out that this was far from true and their vocalization involves a lot of complexity that's extremely similar to human speech. But more importantly, similar to some of the most complex languages on the planet. So basically here they have a kind of a sperm whale fanatic alphabet. And well, to understand why a lot of these discoveries are so shocking, we obviously have to first understand how these animals communicate because not all whales talk the same way. And the whales we're focusing on here are sperm whales, which actually don't use songs like the humbach whales, and instead communicate using short bursts and usually a variety of rhythmic clicks that scientifically are referred to as kodas. Here's what they actually look like on a sonograph. But here's what they look like if you were to analyze them and create a kind of a comparison chart. And since the 1980s, scientists have used underwater microphones referred to as hydrophones to continuously record these sounds and then analyze them using spectrographs. So essentially here we have a lot of data from decades and decades of research. And importantly, a lot of these create visual maps making things just a little bit easier to analyze. And one of the first discoveries from decades ago was that sperm whales seem to live in a kind of a matrineal society or basically societies oriented around a mother and they seem to always live together hunting, babysitting, and even forming a kind of a clan. And it's actually the discovery of these clans that was a little bit surprising because here each clan seems to have their own accent or a specific identity coda and a specific vocal style. And so a lot of this modern research showed that many of these clans use very specific identity coders to mark their own culture. So you can kind of think of these as a national anthem or something. And interestingly with different clans living near each other, they actually learn to mimic each other's vocal styles through social learning. But they do so while keeping their own unique vocal styles completely separate. Which essentially tells us that whale communication is not an instinct. This is not something they're born with. It is definitely cultural and something they learn from members around them. Now, previously something like this has only been observed in primates, certain complex birds, and of course, humans. But over the last three decades, a lot of these discoveries were kind of incremental. And the real evolution began between 2024 and 2026. This was the official discovery of the phonetic alphabet. And so here researchers from the project STI with a C or citation translation initiative whose website you can find any description used the specific machine learning algorithm to go through years and years of data and to basically analyze and match a lot of these clicking patterns in a process discovering that the sperm whale communication seems to be combinatorial. This was one of the first discoveries in 2024. And in simpler terms, they have a set of basic building blocks very similar to our letters and phone names that they can then remix and combine in order to create an almost infinite variety of messages. And so using some of these mathematical models and actually models very similar to what we usually use in chat bots like chat GPT scientists identified 156 distinct codas or distinct phonetic sounds I guess letters that whales used in their communication. But in some cases, they actually change them just a little bit by adding extra clicks or by stretching and shortening the timing of a sequence, which basically suggests that a single word in this case may have many different meanings depending on how it's delivered. Or maybe they were just conjugating sentences just like we do in certain languages. But that was 2 years ago because in the last couple years, it got even more unusual. In late 2025 and early 2026, Sadi researchers published a new finding showing that the whales actually use something extremely similar to human vowels. And so here by looking at the resonant frequencies of clicks, what researchers usually call forance, they identify two distinct patterns they named a codas and icodas. And these are not just random sounds. The Ecodas seem to be generally longer than I codas with the whales even using a kind of a long eye versus short I which is extremely similar to many human languages. But perhaps the most shocking discovery was what's known as coriculation. This is a phenomenon where the sound of one vowel is slightly shaped by the vowel that came before it, which requires an incredibly high level of physical control over their own vocal apparatus. As a matter of fact, no animal except for humans is able to do this. And though for humans, we obviously have this inside our throats, for whales, they seem to have this system. And actually, it's a massive system involving air sacks or these phonic lips inside their heads. So, here's roughly how this looks like. And while the reason I mentioned that their language seems to be very similar to Chinese arises from the way sperm whales use their vocal building blocks in order to produce a kind of a tonal and spectral pattern. And so just like in mandaring Chinese where the same syllable can have entirely different meanings mostly depending on the tone or the pitch and contour here the study discovered that these sperm whales use rising falling and rising falling tones in the resonance of their clicks. And so the example scientists provide is ma. Now I'm not going to try to do the Chinese ma because I don't really have the skills to produce those tones. But in Chinese, the same syllable has at least four separate meanings. It can mean mother, hemp, horse, or scold. And while something extremely similar seems to happen in the whale language, they seem to modulate the spectral properties creating what they call a defongal pattern or a kind of a gliding vowel that exists in certain human languages. And so it's really this part that personally blew my mind because we knew whale communication was complicated, but we had no idea it was Chinese complicated. And that's coming from me who tried to learn Chinese and Korean many times but failed miserably. So yeah, these are really complex languages. Although I guess the question in this case is why do they need such a complex language? Well, we got a glimpse of an answer in March of 2026. And you can sort of see what's happening here. Now this blood that's not actually anyone getting hurt. This is whale birth. Here scientists were able to capture an extremely rare footage of a collaborative sperm whale birth. And they basically observed a midwife like behavior where completely unrelated females and not just family members seem to work together to lift a newborn to the surface in order to help it to take its first breath. And importantly, this wasn't just recorded from the skies. This was also recorded using underwater microphones. And for researchers, this was an incredibly important recording here. During this crisis, it showed distinct shifts in vocalization and the use of very specific vowel-like structures, suggesting they were using their language in order to coordinate this life-saving support. And this kind of a level of cooperation between non- relatives and completely unrelated animals is almost unheard of in the animal kingdom. It essentially points at a society built on deep communication just like our own. This was actually from March of 2026. And as of today, this is one of the most incredible discoveries from Project Zi, but this is just sperm whales for now. Although we do have some studies on the humback whales and of course dolphins. And so at least one study from 2025 on the humbacks was also able to discover a kind of a statistical structure that they also contain and it's also similar to known human languages. Naturally though, their communication style is very different from the sperm whales. And here scientists use methods usually used to study how human babies learn to speak discovering that the humbuck songs follow predictable mathematical patterns with certain parts being repeated. But once again here it's not clicks it's songs. Although the conclusion from this study is that we still have to be very careful about how we interpret these results here. This could be just music even though it does seem to be kind of complex and resembles communication. Or just to rephrase this, these are interesting mathematical discoveries, but unlike these sperm whale studies, at the moment, we don't really know how complex communication from these whales is. And so, when it comes to humbuck whales, we just don't know as much. But because project relies on a new technique referred to as WHM or whale acoustics model, in the future, it's probably going to be applied to other species in order to discover what's happening here. As a matter of fact, right now, this model can sometimes even predict what a whale might say next. kind of like one of those text predictors on our phones. And last but not least, we also have at least one study on dolphins, although technically this one I guess is sponsored by Google. And so here, Google AI helped create what's known as dolphin jamma. We've actually talked about this in one of the previous videos in the description, so you can learn more details in that video. But in a nutshell, this is a kind of a language model designed to find patterns in dolphin speech that's usually just a little bit too subtle for human ears to catch. And though we don't really have any updates about this just yet, the research on this is still going on and we'll probably have some really cool results in the next few years. But overall, I guess one question is so how does this matter for us for our understanding? I mean, because this is not just about talking animals. This is about communication in general. And right now, understanding will communication challenges the idea that humans are the only ones with a true language. Because in this case, we're extremely close to decoding what they're actually saying, understanding their priorities, their history, and even how they see the worl
