anding from a behavior profiling perspective. They use these three sentences. So, I know one of their hidden insecurities is this. So there's hidden information in language that's not just oh this guy scratched his nose and he's lying because there's so much of that [\h__\h] on the internet already which is not true and that's one of the biggest myths but we can also develop a little profile of everybody that we know not as some intelligence asset but I'm truly as a leader the better I am at understanding people understanding that person's needs their the values that they're not even talking about we can find these things hidden hidden inside of people's language. And this is in everyday conversations. One of my books is called six-minute x-ray. And within six minutes, you can find out a person's insecurities, their fears, their secret desires, how they make decisions, what decision type they are, and all kinds. You would be stunned at how much information you can see in like six minutes just getting good at some of that stuff. >> How can people apply that stuff to better themselves and to improve their life like once they know information like that? Well, I think it allows you to communicate with everybody a lot differently. I think it makes you a better leader because you're understanding the people that are working for you that the people that you know, but you're also when you're going through this inevitably when somebody goes through this this training with me, especially the six-minute x-ray stuff, it's a huge lens into oursel as well because we're learning about how we use language and what our language reveals about us. these tiny little pauses and these seemingly insignificant words that people say. So, we're learning not just to be a better communicator, but we're we're be getting better at knowing oursel. And one of the you ask about the most common problem I think the most common problem I've ever seen is that that people don't really know who they are. They don't know themselves. >> It's tough, right? Because it's like you have to be comfortable with all those parts of you, right? And I think so. So, is there anything else that people can do to get good at knowing themselves other than what we've talked about? >> Yeah, I mean, there's there's all kinds of workbooks and therapy and stuff like that, but this just getting to a point of radical honesty. So, you get to a point of if if I'm in a conversation and I'm feeling that there was an awkward pause, I'll just say that out loud. And if I'm feeling like nervous about something, I'll say that I'm nervous out loud. and starting to get to a point where I used to would have never revealed this little thing because I feared judgment. And start getting yourself used to making those little revelations in conversation. And I guess the end result of all of this, the most important thing that I could ever tell you about like getting to know yourself is that if once we start like the starting point for all of this is am I able to locate me on that childhood triangle, the friends, safety, and rewards and this is the one thing that starts untying all of the other stuff. That is definitely the from what I've seen the fastest entry point into a lot of that self-nowledge. >> Yeah. I mean radical honesty is is so important and I think you know people's ability to do that I think is just so transformational like once they get to that point you know you touched on like some of the reading people and talking about how to communicate with other people and the mind control stuff like which one of those skills do you think is the most like if somebody were to to take a deeper dive into your work and that side of things like which skill do you think they should they should focus on f first? I think it going into learning how to read people automatically makes you start reading yourself and seeing it in yourself unless you're like a psychopath and you have no no self-awareness whatsoever. And there's I have a free class that's like I don't know six seven hours that kind of walks you through this fundamental shift on how you view the world and how we view other people. And I think that is definitely the best place to start because if I can learn how to see what's going on around me and learn about myself at the exact same time that becomes a little pathway to selfmastery. >> What are your thoughts on on motivation? Do you think it actually works? Like can somebody like you know read something or look at themselves in the mirror and be like hey you know I want to make this change like can that carry them or do you think it's BS? I think a lot of motivation is going to be based in neurochemistry. So some people say I had this big epiphany and it it may not have been the idea that they had. They they might have traveled and they might have taken a supplement or they might have balance something inside their heads. I think a lot of motivation is is neurochemically based. And there are so many cases where we see people that are going to see a coach. They're working one-on-one with a coach that's working on their mindset and walking them through these questions, exercises, and all this other stuff. Meanwhile, 10 years later, they discover that they've got a vitamin D deficiency. or later on down the road they're deficient in zinc or their epinephrine norepinephrine brain chemistry is out of whack and they just need to add something to their lifestyle or their diet to get that back in. So I think we tend to assume that a lot of psychological problems symptoms are psychologically rooted when in fact it's a physiological deficit of some sort that's causing the psychological symptom. And there's I mean there's cases where uh somebody goes to a therapist office or goes to see a therapist and they're like, "Well, my I every time when I'm walking to work, my hands get numb and tingly. I feel really nervous. My heart's racing. I have this weird thing where I stop from walking. I just feel kind of paralyzed as I'm I'm doing these things." And they're like, "Oh, we have social anxiety. Let's work on that." And then they discover a few years later the person's got a brain tumor that was causing a lot of these symptoms. We tend as a as a culture, we tend to ignore in anything that's happening in our mind, we tend to ignore physiological issues that might be causing the symptoms. >> Is there anything like more recently like any kind of habits or shifts you've made in your own life um that you've made that have that have led to some self-improvement? Yeah. 39 Yeah. 39 days ago I quit drinking because so many of my friends had stopped drinking. Um and it just I was lying to myself uh that it's not harmful. And I have a brain disease and alcohol ex with the exception of maybe red wine. Alcohol is a neurotoxin. It's a neurotoxic substance and I was hurting myself and uh that was the one of the biggest shifts I've ever made. And the shift wasn't in like trying to quit and getting through the process of quitting alcohol and going through withdrawals and all that stuff. It's shifting your worldview to where you know so much truth about that alcohol that all the reasons that you might come up with for drinking are false. So you're flooding your brain with a maximum amount of truth and data to the point where the decision becomes a byproduct of your knowledge and your awareness creates the byproduct of sobriety. Was there anything in your life that was kind of going on in the moment or were you just like, "Hey, you know, I got this brain condition. My friends are doing this." Because I mean, a lot of times with addiction, I'm sure as you well know, like something happens where it's like crap, I'm at this crossroads. I either fix my life or things are about to get much worse. I don't think I had a big crossroads. I think we uh our companies started growing a lot and I hired my sister as as my CEO. So I had her quit her old job and she came on and she my sister Holly is is running our company now and she quit drinking like seven years ago and what I noticed we were at like a family Thanksgiving thing. People were kind of pouring out wine and everybody was having a cocktail scotch and all that kind of stuff. and she didn't drink and it and I asked her like if how do how do you resist it? That was my question. So that conversation with Holly was my big turning point. I said how do you resist the alcohol? She said there's not a it's not about resistance. It's about education. So like if if you know enough about it then you just won't there will be no desire left in your entire body. Uh and that that conversation with Holly was was a big catalyst for that. What did that experience like teach you about behavior change? Like going through something like that? I mean, quitting alcohol is like for many it's like nobody people don't do it because it's so tough and for a lot of people it's like this challenge that takes months or years. Like what did that experience teach you? I think that we very often lie to ourselves about the reasons that we do destructive things. Whether it's being in in a relationship or drinking too much or getting pissed off in traffic when when we really shouldn't be. We are lying to ourselves and we typically the right amount of truth will get us out of a lot of these negative behaviors like it does alcohol or anything else. I'm just missing pieces of truth. Which goes back to what we talked about, this massive shift in perspective that psychedelics you create is why that helps people stop addictions and stuff because it gives you such a it like zooms you out so far uh on everything that like you're you're realize like I'm I'm spending a whole lifetime thinking that a I'm special, b I'm separate from everybody else, and c uh all of my little reasons that I have in my head for doing a lot of weird that I are completely false. >> I think addiction is a simulation for a lot of people where they're just caught in the cycle of it and they can't get out. They don't know what to do. And I think these from what I know, the first few months of recovery for people are very crucial because it's the time I think when cra when cravings are really high. It's like you're recalibrating your mental well-being if you were somebody who numbed with substances. Again, I'm not saying you did this. I'm just saying this is generally speaking. And I think it comes down to habits, right? And h what you're doing on a day-to-day basis to keep yourself busy and again towards this future version of yourself. Like what what types of things do do you do like regularly now to keep yourself like away from potentially going back and drinking? I mean, I have a I have a full bar in my living room, and this is for when people come over, somebody wants to make themselves a cocktail or something, or maybe we have a party here at the house. Um, I think just the enjoyment of after you break the physical and the physiological addictions, the enjoyment of not needing that thing feels a lot like freedom to me. I'll speak for myself. But I think the that people focus a little too much on the chemical addiction to alcohol. I'm going to go through these withdrawals. I'm going to have I'm I'm worrying about uh DTS, which is delirium tremens like this micro seizures that can happen when somebody's withdrawing. But we forget that about 90% of addictions are handto-mouth addictions. So, I'm overeating food. I'm smoking cigarettes, drinking alcohol, or I'm I'm taking drugs or I'm smoking too much weed or whatever it is. A lot of these addictions are hand-to-mouth. So, when we try to get off, we miss out this this hand-to-mouth gesture that that we're so fond of and that we're so used to. So replacing that during the process of getting off of addiction um or getting off of a substance is is really important to have something there to help you wean off of the physical movement pattern as well as the
