 you it doesn't feel good later. It's like I taught a force once on how to tell if you're in a conversation with a psychopath. We and of course you can't I mean there it's hard but we went through this big checklist but one of the big ones on there was if you feel fantastic during the conversation everything feels great and then you you stop the conversation and all of it just drops off. That is a person who's trained or or mentally trained themselves to trigger all of your dopamine hit points. And so you didn't a conversation that feels good afterwards is more rooted in oxytocin and and serotonin. So if I'm doing something in my life and it the great feeling of it doesn't kind of fade off gently over time, probably dopamine, which is what we do with social media and all that. So really identify those sources of dopamine. And I'm willing to bet that most people drew out a map of where it's coming from and here's all the good things that I get dopamine from. Where it's coming from is probably not going to be the right amount. And we want to change. We're going to want to tip those scales for sure. >> Yeah. I think once people can understand what dopamine is, I think their life will dramatically change. I mean, it really shifted for me um understanding more about like addiction, you know, and how certain substances just completely hijacked the brain. And and I think I've talked about this on the show before, but you know, one of the greatest um descriptions of like how your reward system is hijacked was when I was I was sitting in a therapist's office who I think I believe he was like an addiction therapist or psychiatrist. But in any event, he he said to me, he said, "You know, when you're not an addict, like thinking about something like the Grand Canyon is like a 10 out of 10 pleasurable experience." And he's like, "What happens is you start to do some coke and then you get this influx of artificial dopamine. Now the coke starts to go from like a one to a two to a three and then the Grand Canyon goes from like a 10 to an eight." And then you've like reversed it to where now like a few months down the road your reward system has been completely hijacked and the thought of going to a grand the Grand Canyon is so boring to you because you're so used to getting all this artificial dopamine from a substance like coke. And it really shifted things for me because I remember like being that person that like I couldn't go to the aquarium, I couldn't go to a football game, a baseball, I couldn't do anything without being under the influence of a substance when I was younger. And it it totally made sense for me. And I think that it part of getting out of the simulation and what we're talking about now I just think is acceptance of normaly in that you know your brain your the way your brain is responding is kind of normal based on how you're treating it right and if you're not changing the way you're treating your brain it's going to continue to do the same and and that's why it's I think these conversations are are paramount um and like how how do you think like like how can people like survive in this in this world where again you know we're talking about dopamine uh reccalibrating and stuff and yet like I mean there's just dopamine like everywhere and like you said you can't like live in a hut and like turn off everything but you got to stay like kind of tuned in to you know what's really going on around you >> and I I think it it sounds so ridiculous but I think you can look at all the research it's peer reviewed We've researched that just mindfulness practices on their own and you don't have to like sit in a room with incense and like spa music playing and all that kind of stuff. You can do this while you're remulching your yard uh if you want to. But having a practice of mindfulness and being mindful, not just while you're doing the app or while you have the little mindful audio thing in, but doing that throughout your day, while you're in a meeting, while you're in um traffic, while you're cooking, while you're stressing out about having to change a diaper or fix a mess or your roof starts leaking, can you do the mindfulness in there? So getting good at being present is so powerful because you talk about the Graham Ken and your face lit up because you have memories. You have real core memories of being present in that moment. You talk about the dopamine from Coke, your face didn't light up because we don't have the core memories from that. So the Grand Canyon is not just a bunch of dopamine. It's 3D experience and being so immersed in a moment. That's why if we have people that really study mindfulness and there's some really neuroscientists and and psychologists that are studying the effects of mindfulness, but I mean this has been studied for 5,000 years, but but they just called it meditation or they called it zen or they called it some other word. But it's just forcing it's like Caesar Milan. You're like you're taking your little animal brain and you're becoming the dog whisperer and you're forcing that mofo into the present moment as much as you possibly can. Like every time there's a little shift in awareness, you're bringing it back to the m bring it back to the moment. And then there's a way to find like this almost a pleasure in everyday things and just enjoying your life as it is. It's not like you're popping confetti cannons every day, but you're just quietly enjoying what's going on in the present moment. my face lit up because, you know, one of the most memorable experiences of my life is I was in Vegas by myself for a fitness conference and I had some time to to kill and I was staying um at the hotel. I was at the wind and there was like a um a flyer for like helicopter ride to the Grand Canyon and it was like the most thing I've ever done was you know getting in this helicopter and leaving from Vegas and you fly like into the canyon. It was so cool. Well, I highly recommend uh people try that. I mean, it's just I had never been to the Grand Canyon, but it was a hell of a way to see it, and I'm like, I don't think I ever need to go back because I saw it in like the most complete way possible. And it got like the thrill, you know, the thrillseker in me lit up. It got the serenity part of me, like all the things were just engaged during that time. And you know, one of the things that that the Grand Canyon does that's similar to psychedelic therapy is it shows you how small you are and how insignificant we are in in the most beautiful way possible. And I just did that that exact same helicopter ride probably a month in maybe two months ago. >> Oh, really? >> For the first time ever. Yeah. And we landed down there in the canyon. It was me and my son. It was so much fun. >> Yeah. It's cool, right? You're there for like 30 minutes, 45 minutes. And did you go through Maverick? Was that the company? >> Yeah. Yeah, that's what we did. That's what I did, too. >> That's really cool. And we landed a little picnic area. They gave you some snacks and stuff. Man, it was it was profound for me to see. I'd never seen the Grand Canyon until just a few months ago, unless it's like looking out of an airplane window or something on the way to LA. But I think there's a there's a profound perspective shift when you go to giant things like that. The Grand Canyon shows you how tiny you are and how big the world is and how beautiful nature is and how powerful it is and how not powerful we are and not special we are. And there's a lot um a lot that goes on in our life that we get stressed out about is us trying to convince ourselves that we're super super special and we we can't be socially injured. Nobody can uh make fun of us. We can't get any kind of social injury because we're really really special. >> What have you found to be like the common thread of what typically holds people back from, you know, feeling confident, having authority, etc.? >> It's going to be a deep answer. It's not like, oh, it's putting a forgetting a post-it note on your window or something. But it will falls back to three things. And all three of those things are patterns that we develop in childhood. And if we can identify what those patterns are and how they're how we kind of unconsciously put stuffed them in this backpack and then carried them into adulthood without us really acknowledging it, without our awareness, then we have so much more control over our life. And those three things, if you imagine a triangle, and we call this the childhood development triangle, and I can send it to you if you want to like overlay it right now or put it down where people can grab it. It's what did I do around the age of eight to earn and keep friends to feel safe and to earn rewards from somebody and the rewards are different some for some kids it was like food because they had a rough life and other kids it may have been praise for playing the violin really well but what did I do for friends safety and rewards and how did I avoid things to feel safe to get friends to get rewards what did I avoid And whatever those responses are for 99% of people, those are the ways that we handle conflict as an adult, those become the kind of fear of stepping out that we have as an adult because it's a fear of loss. I'm going to lose friends. I'm going to lose safety. I'm going to lose rewards. Those three things and they start when we're like eight or nine years old. And just kind of going back and this quiz is going to help everybody that's listening right now with this. I can start seeing this pattern. Like I'm a 44 year old man now. I could take this quiz right now and be like, "Oh [\h__\h] this started in middle school. I'm still doing this one little thing from middle school." And just kind of dragging that thing, that file out of the cabinet and putting it out in the open gives me a lot more control over it because I'm conscious of these patterns. So now they become a choice of like, do I want to continue this or not? before we don't have a choice because we never opened that closet and never looked inside and pulled those files out. >> I've heard you give your thoughts on like cognitive behavioral therapy like have you found that any other therapies to be like effective at like kind of revamping the mind? Uh, I'm not a like a therapy expert, but as far as I understand now, the average therapy session for extreme anxiety, stress, PTSD, all of those kind of things to kind of get through that is like 6 to nine years. And it's the same thing that's accomplished in four hours of of psilocybin mushrooms. the same results like nine years of therapy in in a short little package. There are some therapies, hypnosis has been proven to work with a lot of people and it kind of has like about a 70 to 80% success rate. Cognitive behavioral therapy has a high success rate over time. So, if you keep at it and and keep doing it for several years, it will work. Psychedelics work higher than 90% and that's in like four hours. it's in one one session. So, that's the fastest route to do it. Working with a coach if you can, like if you have a coach that's really digging through and and walking you through a lot of this stuff and unpacking your your your own [\h__\h] to yourself is is the biggest thing because if if you're just sitting there filling out a little workbook along with a book that you got on Amazon or something like that, it's going to be full of BS because we we're very deceptive to ourselves. I mean, I'm an expert in this stuff. I saw a therapist probably six years ago and I was I was full of it until I really unpacked a lot of this stuff. So, I'm not immune to any of this. But that's the fastest way to do it is to get a coach. Hypnosis, psychedelics, and cognitive behavioral therapy are really powerful for that. >> What have you found to be the relationship between like dopamine and motivation? I think a lot of this comes down to peo
