How can people effectively bounce back after failing so that they don't fall into that trap that so many of us do and that you create this identity that you're act that you are a failure. >> Yeah, this is great. Uh so the the first thing is we have to realize that we all have a narrator that narrates our life. The second thing is we choose what that narrator highlights and focuses on. So that narrator is going to dictate what we think and how we view our life and all of that. But it it a lot of this narrator is also about perspective. So like all these problems that we've talked about so far are perspective and priority. That's it. Perspective and priority. And it it sucks to to have this problem throughout our life and then like oh this this one little shift can change this thing I've been dealing with. So we we have some mental resistance to that like why would something so simple solve this big complex thing and I realized that people have very complex issues in their life but this that doesn't mean the solution has to be complex. So number one, the narrator is there. And number two, you can remind yourself for anybody going through this, remind yourself that going off of these details, saying that I am a failure and then I know that this won't happen in the future for me. Uh that's you're we're starting to border on narcissism because we're saying I picked to the right perspective. I know how I know every detail of the story and I know what to focus on and I can predict the future. U so we're starting to get into this little narcissistic self-reerential bubble of I know what the future holds. So, number one, change the narrator. And number two, anything that's happened in your past, um, unless you're some weird psychopath or something, we people need to be delusionally delusionally self-forgiving. And, and that is the biggest step one to start changing the narrator. >> It's tough, man. And it's tough because I mean I just speak from my own personal experience of like the what the toughest part about it is the cognitive dissonance that exists where you are trying to change the narrative and because you you're so far back in life or you think you're so far back in life like what's in front of you just doesn't match the narrative you're trying to change. And then the idea of creating like po the positive momentum you are creating doesn't feel good enough because you know you're paying attention to social media or you're like addicted you were addicted to substances which create this false sense of dopamine. Like how can people you know start to feel good again and make life kind of exciting for where they're at even though they still have a lot to learn and a long way to go on their journey. >> Yeah. I think just dissecting some of those beliefs is the biggest way to do that. And dissecting it meaning like is this objective or subjective? Am I really buried in this? And then uh one of the things I've done with a lot of my clients is take one of those beliefs. So let's say we've got somebody that says I am a failure. So that means I'm not I can't be successful or I can't do this thing. I can't have this stuff in my life. Then we'll make a giant meme like with beautiful mountains on it and we'll put the text on the screen like u you have to be perfect in order to be successful which is ridiculous stupid but we see the stupid idea on a regular basis and we bring it into conscious awareness so we realize how stupid some of this internal dialogue is. So, we made it like this his desktop wallpaper, this big photo of mountains, and then we put on there uh I think this guy that I'm referring to right now, he had some uh money psychology stuff, but his his limiting belief was like, I can't make money or I feel guilty if I make money and then I can't make a lot of money because that means I'm a bad person because I'm not donating it. So, we made we took his limiting beliefs and made it extreme. So, we want to exaggerate that. So, we took his limiting belief and I think uh what he put on his desktop wallpaper was my kids don't deserve money because I I told him at the end of the day that's really what you're saying. And and if somebody thinks they're a failure, it's my kids and the people that I lead don't deserve u me at my best. They need me to think that I'm a failure. or I might put on the wallpaper, if I think I'm a failure, that means I'm a good person. Just to kind of bring that into conscious awareness as fast as we can and and show ourselves how absurd and ridiculous some of this stuff is. And I think at the end of the day, you watch somebody go through a psychedelic journey, some spiritual revelation happens in their life, they lose their loved one, and everything in their life changes. The first big thing that happens is all the that I thought was a really big deal is not a big deal anymore. Everything that I thought was a huge deal is no longer a big deal. And this is no matter what kind of huge awakening someone has, that's step one to all of these awakenings is everything I thought was a big deal ain't a big deal. Shifting gears a little bit, but kind of building off of the the failure conversation is I think people I think it helps for people to have goals in life and like we talked about this forward thinking approach. I also think again this quote unquote simulation that people live in. It's easy to get sucked into these insanely unrealistic goals like I want to be a millionaire by the time I'm 25. Is it possible? Sure. But is it likely? No. like all these insanely unrealistic goals that either a defeat people in their tracks because they're like, "How the hell am I going to get there?" B, they end up doing like horrific things to get there because they want they care more about the goal than the journey. And C, they end up falling flat on their face like midway through because they've they realize like, oh, like life doesn't work this way. How do you how do you think about goal setting and how can people effectively do so? >> Yeah. Or they get the million and they're still depressed and they're like, "Wait, that too. That there's the Yeah, exactly. >> I'm logging in. I'm looking at my bank account and I still feel like so any of those goals I would I would say for everybody and I've studied human motivation for a while. I don't think I'm a goal setting expert, but I would definitely say that making being a million, what what was the goal? Having a million dollars by the time I'm 25, that is a that is a thing, right? So, that is a symptom of something. Owning a yacht when I'm 23 is a symptom of having done something with my life. So when people are setting goals, what they're typically setting are symptoms. These are the symptoms that I want to have. But what they're not setting are the cause of those symptoms. So like being a millionaire by the time you're 45 to do that, for that to be a byproduct, what would I have to do with my life? So for all of our goals, we have to go back and say, how do I make my goal, this little shallow goal that I have on the top here? How do I make that a byproduct of how I live my life? So that's how we have to set goals. So most people are setting symptoms instead of goals. What we want to set are the causes. How can I cause that million dollars to be in my bank account? So that means I have to wake up at a certain time. That means I have to do this and this and this. Those should be the goals. The byproduct should be the million dollars. by by the time you're 25. >> How do people stay grounded like in the process when um when they're when things aren't happening immediately for them like and when they're doing all the right things and yet success isn't right in front of them? Like how can people kind of course correct their mind? >> I think that the reason that we're we're like, "Oh, I'm not getting success that I want." is that we're we're seeking and I I'm just going to go back to this. We're seeking we're we're defining success as symptoms, >> right, >> instead of causes. So if I work on these causes hard enough that that my lack of success is a lack of me kind of working and getting to the place I need to be. 100% the world's not fair. Never will be. We just got to get over that. It and that sucks. But like if you read the autobiography of like Oprah and like read how Oprah was born in her early years, uh most people's life doesn't even compare to that level of horror and nasty upbringing and unfairness. So that should delete all of your excuses. like there are for everything that anybody would say that they've been through there are a hundred successful people who've been through way worse uh than than you have. So it's definitely out there but my my vision of success should not be a symptom it should be a cause. So am I am I following all these things then yes then that's that I'm achieving my goals. So, my actual goals are just these behaviors and habits that I need in order for that million dollars to be there. >> I know we talked in our last conversation about dopamine and how people get have an unhealthy relationship with dopamine. I'd like to kind of revisit that because I don't think, you know, I don't think things have gotten better with that for people and maybe there's people who didn't listen to our first conversation. um like why do you think or how can people have a better relationship with dopamine so that they can you know maintain this real sense of joy and fulfillment about life? >> Yeah. So the first is to figure out where where we're getting dopamine from. And the way to do this is you take a like a regular sheet of printer paper. I was looking around to see if I have some in here. But you draw a line down the middle, a little circle on that line. So, you kind of make it look like a little basketball court. And on the left side of the page, you write down everything that you're getting dopamine from in your life. Everything that you're getting pleasure from. And confusing pleasure and happiness is the number one way to ruin your life. Pleasure and happiness are not the same. They're not even they don't even touch each other at all. So, where am I getting deriving this dopamine pleasure- seeeking behavior from? Maybe it's chocolate or cheesecake. Maybe it's uh watching porn or maybe it's uh doing drugs or alcohol or you know fill in the blank. All these things that I'm getting it from and that's the time to be honest that I'm also getting it from Twitter or Instagram or Facebook. I'm getting dopamine hits all right there. So I'm going to draw out a map of where all that dopamine is. And then I'm going to assign a point value. Let's say I'm limited to a 100 points and I'm going to assign a point value to each one of those. And then on the right side, where's all the places I'm getting good dopamine from? And the our number one source of dopamine should be X and Y and Z. So, it's different for everybody. It should be us, right? It should be me. It should be if I'm really setting myself up for success and I wake up, I want to wake up at 4:00 a.m. The moment that I wake up, I feel fantastic because the nighttime version of me took the multivitamin, took the magnesium, uh went to bed on time, drank a full glass of water, fill in the blank, all these things to make me present day feel fantastic. But if I if I have all these negative things down this one side of the sheet and I go over here and I'm writing stuff like doing my course assignments in college or spending time with my kids or doing all the things that that I want to get dopamine from and let's say I gave my kids are getting eight points and Twitter is getting 39. You're starting to see this imbalance. So we're it's again we're taking something unconscious and putting it into conscious awareness. So, the way to know whether or not you're getting dopamine out of something is if it feels good or captures all of your attention during that moment and then it
