s three steps that you need to do to get people stuck. And that's PDS. That is pacify, distract, and sedate. Pacify. So we're like pacify you as much as possible. Distract you as much as we can and then sedate you. And if you look at the rise of things that people are doing in life that are anesthetic quality, not just like drugs, but um people looking at porn and video games are up. VR is is through the roof. And that becomes kind of an anesthetic for our life. But if we look at modern tactics of this SCOP that is happening to keep people stuck, it starts with one thing called flooding. So we want to drown out the real signals that are uh with overwhelming noise. This is memes and drama and fake news and riots. I want to I want to drown out as much as I can. Just overwhelm. And then it's repetition. So I want to repeat a message enough and it becomes an internalized truth for people and then the next step is mimicry. So the way that it's working now and when I say SCOPS I'm not talking about the US army. I'm talking about a psychological operation. I just want to put that out there. But they now imitate everyday content. And this is Tik Tok that Instagram posts influence and and stuff like that. And then we have gamification. So the next step of this, the the final two steps are are the biggest. The gamification is where we make ideology feel like a lifestyle or a team sport. Uh and that's big. And then just to seal it in, we use false consensus. So we use a bunch of bots or fake accounts to simulate popular opinion. And once that's happening, we get people who can't really grow up. And I think the biggest layer, this is a super nuanced answer, but the biggest layer is if you look at Maslo's hierarchy of needs, it's this little triangle. We have like survival and then safety and then love and belonging, and then we have like self-esteem and all the other stuff. But the love and belonging, that's our social need. And what we have on social media now, we have this Tik Tok, Facebook, you know, whatever you want to say. Our brains are not capable, 100% not capable of managing a social network that large. And the social media serves as a placebo of fulfilling that social need. So what happens is our brains are thinking that we're getting that social fulfillment, but we can never go past it, which means we never get to esteem. We never get an actual fulfillment of that. We get these dopamine hits that feel like social connection, but they're not. It's not satisfying that ancestral part of our brain. So, it is stuck in that place. And massively, what happens as a result of that is I can't have empathy for every bad thing that goes on around the world. It's not possible for anybody. Uh, so we see people in outrage about one or two things, but the there's a guy that maybe got murdered two blocks away from their house. They don't have time to deal with that because they're worried about Ukraine or they're worried about something else going on. So now that we have so much overload of social connection and negative news, we have apathy. And and I I do believe that this is an engineered apathy and that's the that's the real cause of all this. So, do you think there's a way out? >> I do. I make videos about this on my channel all the time. And I think the way out is not just like go live in a cave and like become Amish. It's like throw your your iPad in the trash. I think the way out is starting to realize what is simulated and what's not in your life. Then where are we looking at a label of something and thinking that that's the thing, the word is the thing? Where am I looking at social connection on Facebook and and tricking myself into thinking it's real? Because what this has made us do is pretend. And all of us just fallen into this trap of I need to fake something. I need to pretend like I've got all my together. Like we see all of these videos online of these content creators, like everything looks good in the background, but you go to their normal life, their off camerara life, it's absolutely falsified. So the way that we do this is we realize what's fake in our life and where we are pretending. And the biggest thing that's been engineered over the last few years is this fear of social injury. And that is weaponized. If you look at like the the biggest fear of people is public speaking, but it's actually judgment. So the the fear of judgment has been weaponized. And we talked about this like with your first question, stop being a victim to the fear of judgment is the biggest thing. And even even if you're just starting small, just be okay with receiving a a social injury once or twice. And be okay with being non-perfect. And if you're watching the news on a regular basis, I would say that is a that's worse than in my opinion, I would say that's worse than like smoking a few packs of cigarettes for your health and for your mental well-being. I would say like if you're watching the news, that would be step one is like I haven't watched the news in probably nine years, eight or nine years. And it's amazing. But if something's going to happen here, my neighbors going to text me. My family's going to say, "Hey, did you see this thing that happened? Maybe I'll see some events that are important." But our brains are not wired to handle a world full of news. Our brains are wired to handle a hundred people max, maybe 150. And that little tribe is what we're supposed to handle. And we're tricking ourselves because our brains have not evolved in 200,000 years. And how can people have like a nuanced relationship or is that possible? Like meaning like I heard you say that social media creates this false sense of connection and yet I think people want to still figure out how can I stay informed? How can I stay connected to people online that I may or may not be friends with? And then the same thing with the news where they're like, hey, like probably shouldn't be watching the news every night before I go to bed. And I also want to stay informed with what's going on. like is there a way to have a healthy balance with these things so that it doesn't wreck people's lives? >> I I don't think I'm the expert. I'm I'm the guy that studies how it damages us and how and I'm not even studying it for health reasons. I'm studying it because I teach interrogation. I teach people how to make people do things that are not in their best interest. Then this is getting someone to confess to a crime. This is uh or if they think it's not in their best interest. So if somebody has a severe uh depression and they go see a psychologist, they think getting rid of that which is a part of themselves is not in their best interest. So this is this is what I really study. But I think the balance comes down to awareness, a deep deep awareness. Because Papa Carl, as as we call him in all of my trainings online, Carl Jung famously said, until you make the unconscious conscious, it will control your life and you will call it fate. And most of what we think is our fate is just a bunch of running in in the background, a bunch of unconscious stuff that's going on that we're not aware of. So getting hyper aware of your screen time, getting hyper aware of where I feel this need to pretend and why do we still need to pretend? Social media has hijacked this thing. So we fear social injury. So getting hyper aware is step one. There's not like you need to wake up at 5 and take a cold shower and take zinc and magnesium and all this like perfect morning routine. Just make the in your life that's unconscious. Bring it as much as you can to the surface and do it on a regular basis. And keep in mind that the mamalian brain that makes all of our decisions and that governs our whole life doesn't speak English. You will never affirmation your way out of this stuff. Like that's using language is not the right way to do it. Using awareness is we have this part of our brain called the the reticular formation. People online commonly refer to it as a reticular activating system. So, in in your brain, if if Doug is searching for white 2025 white Toyota 4Erunner TRD Pro, then you've got all these specifics and stuff, then you finally go and buy one. The day you start driving it, you're going to see it everywhere. You're going to be like, "Whoa, everybody's got the same car as me." And that's not because you told your brain using language to do that. the biggest changes in our life when we fall in love, we watch our kid get born. Um, all of these big things that happen in our life, these big shifts in our unconscious are never rooted in the use of language. So, how can I get the awareness up there so much that I'm telling that reticular formation in the brain that this is very important so that the mamalian side of our brain starts searching for it? What do you think is a good like first step for someone who is like in this simulation and on autopilot and they're just used to doing the same stuff over and over again? They're scrolling social media. They're not taking care of their health. Like what's the first thing they can do to develop start to develop this hyper self-awareness? >> So the number one thing is disruption. Anytime you want to start deprogramming someone or even brainwashing someone either way, back or or backwards or forwards, you want to start with destabilization and some kind of agitation with lifestyle. So, if I expect something, I need to disrupt the expectation. I'm going to wake up. I'm going to brush my teeth maybe with my left hand. I'm going to repaint my bedroom and move my furniture around. I'm going to routinely do things that disrupt the scripts that I'm following through my life. So, if the script if one of my scripts is scrolling on Instagram for an hour, maybe couple hours a day, I'm going to set a time limit. There's like if you look at the new iPhone, you can set app time limits and stuff on your on yourself. And I don't mean that I can't reopen the app, but I'm just going to disrupt the script when that time limit thing pops up. I'm going to do everything I can to start disrupting those routine scripts in my everyday life. One of the things I've had my clients do is there's this uh stuff that uh physiootherapists use called KT tape. You ever heard of that stuff? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> So, it's like stretchy stuff. It's got two sticky ends on it and it's kind of like to pull the fascia away from muscles. I'm probably making that up. I'm not an expert. But just putting that on your body, uh, no matter where you put it is going to refocus your energy throughout the entire day. So just having like pulling your chest apart or having it to where like if you slouch it, it's going to like tighten up. That's going to tell your brain over and over without English, without any words. it's going to tell your brain over and over something is different, something is new, you need to pay attention. So the the fastest way to break out of the scripts is to start disrupting them on a regular basis. And I think that sometimes people when they hear what we're talking about or they have this gut feeling that the world is quote unquote against them or they've they're wired to fail or whatever, they fall into like the victim mindset. Like how would you how do you how would you like interrogate yourself or what questions would you ask to be able to snap yourself out of a rut like that and escape the victim mindset? >> That is so so tough, especially when it's a behavioral pattern. I would say the fastest way to do it is listen to the expert on a regular basis. And I would say that's like Jaco Willink uh can can snap you out faster than Chase Hughes ever could. But if you want to snap out of any kind of rut like that and you see yourself kind of going into this victim mindset, that is amazing and you should celebrate that because 99% of people aren't even aware that they're in it. So if you've got to that point where you realize that I m
