ight be, you know, victimizing myself, you need to get out of that mindset, but the fastest way is I need to start disrupting scripts. Because even if you watch Jaco all day, every day, you read all of Jaco's books, you're running on scripts. So we're running on autopilot 10 times more than we think we are. Throughout our entire day, we're running these autopilot script from our behavioral patterns. So no matter what we read, remember that's language. We have to disrupt patterns so that the brain pays attention. So we have to do things differently where the brain has no more ability to predict the future. I think when sometimes people are trying to get momentum, like journaling or even like putting their thoughts out there, setting goals can help, you know, what what do you think are some of the most important like questions someone should ask themselves or uh important maybe like journaling prompts like if you were trying to, you know, get someone to snap out of that behavior change and be consistent with how they're moving forward in life. Some of the most important questions to raise are what are the things I do automatically every day? Like what are the things I'm doing automatically and how can I start breaking out of that? But second is what are the things that make me emotional? What are the things that I get upset about? And that's where we're going to find those little identity fragments. And Carl Jung talks about this so much that I have my office is just like full of of Carl Jung's books. What I really want to do is on a repetitive basis, what am I doing? Not just on autopilot, but how am I judging other people? And that number one is going to help you start identifying those unconscious patterns of like I have I'm carrying some kind of secret concealed shame that I don't want anybody to know about. Um, and when people are concealing shame and guilt, the the biggest thing is they think that they're the only one. Um, But I can tell you that this is 100% of people are doing this and whether or not you feel bad about it is is the measure. So where am I judging other people and where am I carrying some kind of hidden shame and that the hard part about the the hidden shame part is that some people will carry this hidden shame and they will feel like me feeling bad about this one thing that happened in middle school or this thing that happened a couple of years ago. If I feel bad about it, that makes me a good person. That's the biggest load of that that you could ever hold inside of your brain. Feeling bad about something does does not make you a good person. >> Yeah. And it's tough because I think that a lot of times, like going back to this victim mindset, I think people will use their past as a way to justify current behavior. They'll say, "Well, I was picked on in school. My parents got divorced. I mean, I did all of this and I wound up in jail." And they people end up using these excuses as a way to justify how they act now. And it's tough because their brain is now convinced them that it's okay to behave that way because they're used to getting people patting them on the back and telling them it's okay. And the Saab story is there's commodity in that. >> There there really is. And I think if you look at it from a different angle, that's the first big thing that we all need to do is I need to take my little GoPro that's normally stuck way behind my head and put it out in front of my eyes and start changing my perspective. This is why like just a shift in perspective can solve depression and it can it can help people with PTSD and all kinds of other things. This is why that we're starting to see that psychedelic therapy is like one of the most effective things ever tested. >> Well, and I think it's tough because people for decades like they they are just used to seeing like one perspective having one view of the world and they've essentially kind of manipulated their own perception of of reality and it just takes so much work to to snap out of it. And it and it's tough like how how do you think people can be consistent with it when they have been inconsistent for years and they're just somebody that has had the same like type of worldview for a period of time and they're trying to like make that shift to be consistent with behavior change. >> If they're trying to change themselves, the number one thing that we can do is is form a a visual relationship with your future self. And this sounds maybe we talked about it on the last podcast. I don't remember, but you you get you download an app that makes you look like a 95y old and you do that thing. You take the selfie, you look looking at it and it makes like AI warps your face or I don't know how it works, but you print that sucker out and you put it on your fridge. You put it on everywhere you want it to you want to be reminded. And so most people don't prioritize our future selves because we have no ability to visualize them. They're hard to think about. But what we're doing is not using language. We're not using affirmations. We're showing the mammal part of our brain what we want to focus on and where we want to place priority. So if I want to be consistent, the only reason I fail to be consistent is because I'm prioritizing myself right now. What do I want? What does present tense me want right now? And we're saying f you to the the future tense version of us. So shift number one to make to to make so many changes in your life is can I teach my mamalian brain to start forming a prioritized relationship with future me? How could you could you do that with like situations like, you know, I imagine if somebody is like in a relationship and they're acting disrespectfully to their partner, like would there be a way to like look at like a future version of that relationship or someone who's addicted to drugs and they're like, "Hey, what's my life going to be like in 10 years?" Like is can that app do something similar or would you like have to almost like draw a completely different picture? I think that our brain is is wired to go against things a lot more than it is towards something positive. It's it's made to go away from something negative. If you look at at our ancestors, they were way more likely to confuse a stick for a snake than a snake for a stick. So, we're our brains default to negative to keep us safe. So, if if you're trying to avoid something, maybe printing two versions of that picture out. One where you're missing some teeth, maybe somebody's on drugs or something, or one where you're uh morbidly obese and 85 or 90 years old. Uh, a lot of those can help the mamillian brain say, "I don't want that." Because our brain, people are saying like you're programming your brain all the time. But if your brain doesn't like something, it's going to be repulsed by that. And I know that you're not if you're putting negative stuff into your brain on a very regular basis. It's very hard to just want that negative thing. You're not going to drive toward it automatically. So keep in mind, our brains are wired to move away from negative stimuli. And so we just create that negative stimuli to help us form that relationship with the future self. >> So from a on a day-to-day basis like kind of bringing this together like we've got companies and things that have created this simulation for people to feel like they're stuck or even more stuck than they actually are in their life. And then you have these people that are trying to change and they're watching your content. Maybe they're listening to this episode and they're like, "Hey, you know, I realized my relationship with social media is unhealthy. I probably should change my friends. I probably should put the substances down. I should probably work out." Like all the things. And yet they're up against this battle that exists that's way more powerful than they are, right? How can people navigate that on like a dayto-day basis? like what would that framework look like so that they are working towards self-improvement and yet but yet they're not letting this you know sigh up kind of affect them while they're on their way. I think that from a day-to-day basis the the main thing that a person can do to start getting out of this rut is a developing that future self relationship where mamlian brain sees it. That is number one. But number two is just making the unconscious conscious. So let's go back to that for just a second with with this new question. If I am if I know that I need a new friend network, there's part of me that I'm not really aware of that I need to make more aware in my brain. So I need to like write all this stuff out. Maybe I need to build a spreadsheet. Maybe it's some visual thing that I need to do. I need to make these problems as crystal clear to my conscious brain as I possibly can. So, if I'm on social media today, maybe I'll go to Michaels or Walmart and I'm going to get a big poster. I'll draw a little grid on there and with a big Sharpie, I'm going to go up there every day. I'm I'm going to write how many hours because your phone tracks it all. I'm going to write my screen time on this big board. The stuff that we used to just unconsciously pursue is now getting forced closer and closer and closer to conscious awareness. That is the fastest way you can do it. Because if I want to manipulate you, if I'm running a scop against a country of any size, the first thing I want you to do is pacify, distract, sedate, those things. So all of the negative behaviors, all the things that I want you to be doing are happening unconsciously. And the fastest way to do that is just to get someone to do something on a regular basis. And second, get you to believe that lots of people are doing it so I can normalize the behavior.
