ctions. And we'll get into that in the discipline part. But what most people don't do, like if you just get like a simple journal. So like if you just get like a blank page in your journal and you kind of draw out it looks like a basketball court. So I'm going to do a circle in the middle here and then I'm going to write down all the places in my life I get dopamines that and and I'm going to be honest. I'm going to put Instagram comments, alcohol or drugs or pornography or you know all these places that people are getting dopamine from. I'm going to write that down. And then what I do with all of my clients is on a one to 100 or you have a 100 points and you have to spend all 100 points, but you have to put a point value on where you're getting your dopamine from. So, and that's typically the first time ever in somebody's life where they've actually mapped out where their pleasure is coming from, not happiness. Dopamine is not happiness. Dopamine is pleasure. And most people confuse the difference between those two. So if I have a score of 10 for throwing the ball for my dogs or playing with my kids or things that I should that should be higher and the score for alcohol is like 65, you've never like once people see that metric, it is very very hard to ignore. So the step two is like where where should the dopamine be? So here's where it is. Now, I'm going to draw a little map and on the next sheet of paper, we're going to draw a new map and start, you know, drawing an arrow from the negative to the positive. Like where I'm going to borrow dopamine from this location. Maybe you don't have to quit all the way. I'm just going to borrow some points. So, at least these two are equal. And that's that's the next step. I'm going to get this from a 12 on this and this one's like a 50. I'm going to find out the midpoint of that and borrow dopamine from the high dopamine area. Does that make sense? >> Totally. And what what have you found to be the most like effective things for having a healthy dopamine score? Like what are the things that people can do for themselves that keep their dopamine at the most healthy level? >> Well, that that goes straight into the discipline thing if you're ready to talk about it. Y. >> So when I said that like your number one source of dopamine needs to be yourself, there are a few things you can do. The number one thing when we talk about discipline, the definition of discipline is that no one talks about your ability to prioritize the needs of your future self ahead of your own. And that's all it is. Can I prioritize future me above my present self? So over time, I'm going to try to do things on a repetitive basis as often as possible to where future me is getting some kind of reward. I might set up the coffee maker the night before. I might put clothes out for myself. I might just put a thing on my phone that reminds me in certain times. And this is shortterm, right? So these are small little things. It's springtime right now as you and I are recording this or spring has just started. And I might go into my winter jackets that we're about to take out of this closet and kind of put it down in the basement for a while and put a $100 bill in one of those and write maybe write a note to myself on there. So the more actions I can take to set up my future self for success, the more once that success comes, I'm looking backwards to my past tense self, not with regret, but with gratitude. That's the most important shift to make. And I'm going to continuously do this. I'm essentially acting like a butler except I'm doing it for myself. I am the butler of my future self. And this isn't just like folding clothes and setting up coffee. This is how we spend money. The food that we're eating, the the stuff we're buying at a grocery store is all going to dictate am I prioritizing me now or me later? And a lot of people never really have this conversation of where are my priorities? And they're typically when people are not really getting the results they want out of life, their priorities are now, here, and now, and maybe a little bit in the future, but they're not really prioritizing all the things that are happening in the line. So, what happens is my daily interactions are a I'm looking backwards or I'm anticipating stuff that my past tense self has set up for me. I've got dopamine coming in, anticipation, and drive to start setting my future self up. And I'm getting dopamine to get stuff from my past tense self. So, I'm getting dopamine from both directions of versions of me. And that is the the most powerful way that we can start doing that. And just the way to do this, there's not like here's 17, you know, super cool tricks to do this or some formula. You just do it as much as you can and you rate yourself every single day. How did I do? Where were my priorities today? And it takes 10 seconds to put it in a notebook or journal, calendar, whatever. And you put it down. And just the act of rating yourself and bringing it into your conscious awareness is the fastest way to get that process into your life. Because it's the same thing like when you buy a new car and you start seeing it all over the place. I'm just repetitively exposing myself to that level of awareness. And you don't need to change anything. Your mamalian part of your brain is going to do that for you. >> And what have you found to be the most like common things that people need to rep prioritize in their lives as far as like working on their future self? >> The most common is probably time management and environment management. Like if you're thinking that you're going to be a multi-millionaire or you want to run a company or something like that and you can't organize your office or your desk or and you can't keep your area clean, like you can't even pick up after yourself. Every time that you go out and you want to look like a CEO, you want to look like a leader, you're going to know there's a part of your brain dedicated to knowing that you're faking it. And that's where we have inongruent behavior. And that's how we we make these gut feelings in other people. We have this conversation, everything looks great. We follow that LinkedIn article that we read of 14 ways to look more confident and command respect like a leader and that person kind of gets a gut feeling and the gut feeling is like something's not right, something's not adding up. So no matter what we do, we're sending off these small signals. So, environment, time, appearance, and appearance is like my hygiene, all of that stuff that might signal that I'm an authority to other people. So, environment, time, appearance, social skills, and social is one of the ways that we should be getting dopamine and we're not. We're getting it from social media instead of my closer circle of friends, my next door neighbors that live next to my house, the people that live across the street. The people in 3D are where most of your social dopamine should come from 3D human beings and not 2D human beings, people that you know. And financial is the last one. >> So, I was somebody that was incarcerated on felony drug charges. I share that because one of the hardest things I had to do was completely change my identity and transform into this new version of myself. And I think it's so challenging for people because, you know, for me, I was so used to being a failure. My brain was convinced that I was going to fail at life because before I was in jail, I failed at everything. And so how can people like quickly or efficiently kind of trick their brain into becoming that new version of themselves when the old version of themselves has been beaten down over and over and over again. There's a couple of things it's and that always comes down to confidence. If I have a lot of self-doubt, that's going to be a big one. But even bigger than self-doubt is shame and self- judgment. And you know, most judgment is us kind of casting that off onto other people. So the the fastest way, and there's no hack for this, but the fastest way to do this is to become so self forgiving that people would think that you're crazy, like you're bat crazy because you're so forgiving of yourself. Because shame and the fear of shame is what holds people back from really doing that stuff. And when it comes to confidence that there's two main elements of confidence and that number one is radical radical self forgiveness. Like who gives a crap what happened in the past? Just radical to the point where it's insane. Cuz if you're feeling down, you're in the dumps, like you're a little you're doubting yourself all the time, that's already delusional. You're already delusional. So just pick delusions in the other direction and be more delusionally self-forgiving. The part two of that confidence is a generalized, it does not need to be specific, but a very generalized expectation that things are going to be okay. And just those two things, you will drastically just shed so much weight that you notice like so many people carry this stuff around like shame about some thing that happened like when they were 20 or when they were in in high school. If you get to the point of radical forgiveness for other people and for yourself, you get to a point of I have confidence. But I would say the third part is stop waiting for permission because a lot of people are waiting for some signal once my bank account reaches this much once people respect me and I can prove that to myself they they'll just wait on these little milestones. And those milestones act as little permission slips for us to feel confident. And they're they're completely artificial. They're absolutely placeos. They don't do anything to make you more confident. It's just a placebo. So there is no one coming to give you permission. You've just got to give it to yourself. And speaking of being radical and confident, you know, I think one of the tough things, and again, this is just speaking from my own experience and people I've talked to, is like when when you're kind of on the come up and your life isn't where it wants to be. You have this kind of cognitive dissonance going on that's like, well, my finances aren't where they are, my relationships aren't, my health isn't, but I'm on the journey up. And it's like, how do I become confident even though my circumstances are crap? Like how can people become like delusionally confident when they're out trying to make it, introducing themselves to other people even though their life at home isn't where it wants to be. >> Yeah. And that that goes back to do I manage my environment, my time, appearance, social, financial. And if those things are on the up, like you you're actually taking care of yourself, you're living life how you really want to live it, but you're it doesn't matter what the metrics are. If you're doing the right things and you're living off camera, so not not not your results, but your behavior when you're off camera will dictate how people feel about you. So, if you try to act confident and you're feeling insecure about all of this stuff because you haven't made your bed, you didn't get up early, you don't have a lot of discipline, but you're trying to give this appearance of confidence or discipline out in public, you've got to start living that way off camera. So, that's it's just a natural thing. And most people view confidence as something that you do. Like, it's a thing that I do. And all it is is removal of things. It's not adding in anything. So, the biggest lesson I ever learned in my lifetime training operatives and stuff is that confidence is not additive. Like, I don't need to add things to you to to to get you to be confidence. I need you to remove this fear of social judgment. This is why public speaking is the number one fear. And second, I really need you to remove this self shame and all this crap that you're carrying for no reason. It doesn't make you a better per
