son at all. It doesn't make you a better person to feel ashamed of stuff. It makes you a worse person. It makes you less effective and it makes you more judgmental of other people. And the the final element of this is composure. And when most people go out and try to be confident, they're either in posturing mode or collapse mode. So in posturing mode, someone's like puffed their chest out, they speak louder than they they normally would, and they try to overdo confidence. And then the collapse mode is I'm going to shrink so other people feel more comfortable around me. But I think the middle of that is just composure is the word I would have for that. So just make composure like this daily practice. And composure is is the fastest route when it comes to practicing things. Composure is the fastest route to confidence. >> Yeah. The puffing the chest out. It's kind of like the invisible lat syndrome. be familiar with that where Pete where guys will like walk around like this just to give the impression that they're they're bigger than they actually are as far as their upper body. You talked about composure which I think it gets into like how can you be more comfortable in difficult situations. You know, what have you found to be like a hack or something that you've worked on yourself or with the people that you've trained to help people practice becoming more composed, you know, during difficult situations. So there's a few things and we the first we have to understand like the neuroscience of this and why that works and we we have this mamalian part of our brain this limbic system that kind of governs 99% of our life. So we think that we're in charge and this this animal brain is actually in charge and most people need to realize that that part of our brain doesn't speak English. It can't read affirmations at all. like there's no language ability in that part of our brain. So when it comes to coming into life and trying to get more composure in conversations and having that that level of discipline where you're kind of a lot more in charge, you're not in charge of the room, you're in charge of yourself. Mistake number one that destroys 90% of people, the f the biggest mistake, and I've never heard anybody else say this is thinking in terms of hierarchy and status. So, am I above or below this other person? And the the first step to that is, am I willing to agree to treat everyone equally? This means that if I meet Jeff Bezos tomorrow, I'm going to treat him the exact same way as I treat a Starbucks barista. Everybody gets the same. There's no hierarchy. I'm going to I'm going to be the same to every person that I talk to. And that level of consistency sets the stage for that level of composure. So to going into that mamalian part of this uh it's a practice. So composure is a a lifelong practice but you get good at it by making your body get involved first. So our brains are hardwired to kind of compare with other animals and stuff. So with other other humans and the moment you get in a conversation, the way that you should permanently change the way you compare yourself is slowness and movement. And am I willing to be the slowest person in the room? And am I willing to be more relaxed than the other person? That's it. Those are those are the only things. Doesn't matter if it's this multi-million dollar potential client on a sales call or the barista at Starbucks, they're going to be identical. I'm going to be slower than the other person, more relaxed, treat everybody the same. And that is the fastest way to do that. And then kind of rating yourself at the end of the day. How did I do on a one to 10 on composure? Was I more in collapse? Was did I lean into the posturing side? And definitely absolutely rating yourself every day is going to bring more and more awareness. And of course it's kitschy and it's something that's all over the internet. But mindfulness, this practice of mindfulness throughout the day. Just because it's all over the damn place. There's a reason for that. It doesn't mean we should dismiss it. It's absolutely powerful, especially when it comes to composure and and leadership and authority. What have you found to be the the number one thing that people struggle with as far as being uncomfortable? >> You mean in in social settings? >> Yeah. Like what's the the the biggest thing that you find people to be uncomfortable with? >> I I think it is a fear of future judgment. So it's imagining some kind of social judgment. And we're we're tribal animals. And if a a large number of people in our tribe a million years ago started judging us and and making fun of us, we could be outcast. We're not going to have sex. We're not going to have babies. And then our genes die. And this is one of the reasons public speaking is the number one fear. We're not afraid of speaking in public. We're afraid of the potential for judgment. And that's a two-part thing. So the moment I am thinking about the potential for judgment my brain automatically defaults to saying if there's a potential for judgment that also means that I need to manage how I am perceived. So this leads to there's a potential fear of judgment I'm going to change how I'm acting to to where everything's good. I'm going to manage everything a lot more which makes us less us. which which sends off a little vibe to people that's like something's not right. There's something not really fully adding up. And then we see more skeptical facial expressions or more doubting. So it changes who we are. It makes us more self-managing and more self-managing. So we get out of that that need like judgment's not going to hurt me. Your brain is wired to equate the fear of judgment with the same as being attacked by a saber-tooth tiger. So the fastest way to get your brain to understand this is the phrase there are no tigers. And it's going to remind you that this is a mamalian response system that is outdated and a lot of our society has outd kind of outpaced our brain's ability to adapt to it. So just kind of that reminder there are no tigers. And the second is start like a daily practice of worrying less and less about perception management because people are looking a lot less than you think. Everybody's thinking how what are they seeing? How are they judging me? They're they probably don't care and it's not going to matter. It will never matter at the end of the day. >> Do you think there are things that people can do that like force them like naturally to embrace discomfort? I mean, I know one of the things that's helped me is like the cold plunge, sauna, like doing like intense workouts. Like there's a big trend for that now and they're linking it to getting better at managing stress and being better in social settings. Like to be found anything like that to be instrumental. >> Yeah, those are are proven to work. I mean, the first study on it on it managing mental health stress was like 1951. They were studying dudes in like Norway and Sweden where there's like saunas everywhere. and why they were so emotionally resilient to stress. And this was in they were measuring it in combat and soldiers returning from combat and how the saunas and and cold water helped manage stress and those are fantastic. Another one to add on to that is just getting into a practice of yoga, which a lot of people don't associate with that, but if you have a good yoga instructor, they're going to walk you through this little yoga session and they're going to remind you like when you're feeling a little bit uncomfortable, they're going to tell you to smile. They're going to tell you to breathe slower and and smile through that whole process. And it is fantastic at helping somebody manage just mind. I'm mindful. I'm in the moment. I'm continuing to breathe through discomfort and your brain starts learning these habits. So that is definitely Doug, you hit it on the head right there. >> I think that one of the the things that people are really I think one of the things that people really struggle with is fear. And fear like really like can trap them from making a decision. Fear can trap them from going out and changing their life. And it can just be completely overwhelming. I know we've kind of touched on, you know, some of this stuff already, but like if somebody came to you and they're like, "Hey, like Chase, like I want to I want the the bulletproof way to crush fear so that it doesn't let me so it doesn't like overpower me and prevent me from like living my best life." Like what can they do? >> Well, the the first way is to start identifying all of those fears because every fear is like I don't want to go out in public. I'm scared of going in public. Well, why? I have a fear of judgment. And then we go, why is that? And why is that? And you kind of get back to like, well, in middle school, I got made fun of or in high school this thing happened. And starting to get aware. The awareness is the fastest way to start getting some of these things unwired and living in a way where you know that this is kind of a a simulation. And you're kind of gifying your own life by taking these notes every day. We're living in a way that I'm kind of in a video game and I want I want to level up my character. I'm going to live in a way that is as fearless as possible. So to get out of those fears, the fastest way to do that is to really really dig down on each one of those and figure out what it was. I have a system actually if if you do PDFs or show notes, I'll just send you the PDF and you can stick it in the description below the video that all of our intelligence operators go through to assess their level of authority and what's what's really holding them back in their life. And it's free. It's it's called the authority assessment inventory. And that's one of the fastest ways. And if you if you think even if you're not religious, if there's any belief in your mind that says all of these ancient texts might contain some stuff that's really powerful and some really good wisdom, whether it's the the teachings of Judaism or Christianity or reading Hindu texts like the Bhagavad Gita or the Upanishads and I mispronounced that. I have no no doubt I mispronounced that. But all of these texts have these things in common. And even just zooming in on one of those, like the the Bible, the most common phrase in the entire Bible is do not fear. It's the most recurring phrase in the entire Bible. It's 365 times reminding you not to be afraid of anything. It's not a big deal. Nothing is a big deal. And it's every single ancient text that seems to reflect that there's some truth with a lowercase T in all of these. And there may may not be one absolute truth. But I think that even Plato before Christianity was even around. Plato wrote about this and wrote about the folly and and waking up from kind of the simulation and realizing that it kind of is a game with the Plato's allegory of the cave wrote about this a long time ago way before Christianity was around. But no matter what book you look at, if it's an ancient text and this ancient wisdom, every single thing that you see is telling us that we're all kind of like one thing. Don't be scared of anything in your life and just kind of go forward and and don't be a douchebag. We're all one thing and don't be scared. That's kind of the main theme of all these books. And I think just living your starting to live your life that way is such a powerful move. And how can I be less fearful? >> Is the system rigged to keep people in their 20s and 30s stuck in their head, stuck in life forever? I think the this is a we're going deep pretty fast. So I think the system is not necessarily rigged as if there's one puppet master, one guy holding the the strings and all this stuff. I think it's many many things and maybe twothirds of it is just the algorithms that are pushing profit. But when it comes down to you want to get anyone stuck, there'
