ple just don't feel motivated to change their life. >> Yeah. And I think that goes back to the dopamine map. It's like where the where the dopamine's coming from is a big deal. And they may not be setting the right goals and the motivation might not be there. And here's the thing that nobody's going to say. You're going to see all these mindset coaches, therapists. You're going to see people saying, "You need to think differently. You need to set different goals. You need to wake up earlier in the morning. Brush your teeth with your opposite hand." all of these little pieces of advice. And people try this for 11, 12, 15 years and they're not really getting better. And finally, they go see somebody that tests their vitamin levels, that tests their neurotransmitter levels, and all they discover, oh, I've just had a vitamin D deficiency. This whole freaking time they were trying to like think their way out of a vitamin deficiency or a neurotransmitter problem. And they had a physiological problem, not a psychological problem. So that is a big powerful thing. A doctor can order those tests and man vitamin B, vitamin D deficiencies can severely impact your life. And then you're going to every everybody you see is going to say, "Oh, well, you need to think more positive. You need to think differently. You might have a hormonal neurotransmitter or vitamin imbalance that's just ruining your life." The good news, if that's true, is it's a very, very easy solution 99% of the time. Well, and but I think like from the action perspective and behavior perspective, I think there there needs to be a strong focus in my opinion on like small wins for people when they're looking to tr to change their life because what happens is we live in this world of instant gratification where we want to achieve these big things in, you know, an hour when really it's just a it's just compounding small wins to achieve that big thing. I would love to hear your perspective on it as far as behavior like what is the importance of just doing the right thing every day and having that lead up to something major. >> Yeah. And they I think all the old coaches back in the day would call this right action. Am I am I doing the right action? And that's the same with so many people now get upset and they kind of get into a a little emotional rut because they're so used to things being quick. They like they're kind of thinking I want the ompic version of of discipline. I want the give me the ompic so I can do X and not everything has that and some things just take time and those small wins are so critically important but what's more important is my human brain is not fully in charge of all of this. It's that mammal. So always think of how could I dis how would Caesar Milan handle this [\h__\h] So if I have a problem with a dog's motivation, I need four things to lead a mamalian brain. Whether it's a human mamalian brain, a dolphin or a dog, it's focus. Where is all my focus going? What are the sources of authority? And then tribe and emotion. Focus, authority, tribe, emotion. It spells out fate. and it is your fate for sure. So just figuring that stuff out. So how can I change the mamalian focus? So if I have affirmations on my wall or I have a a calendar that has X's on it every time I work out or every time I get into ketosis or or whatever somebody's trying to do an your dog doesn't understand that. That's the big piece that everybody seems to be missing. A dog can't see that your mamalian brain isn't excited about a black and white thing on the wall with a bunch of X's on it unless you have this tremendous emotional attachment to it. So that's where like these vision boards come in, who we're hanging out with, who we're spending time with, where that why that tribe is so critically important. And all of these elements of our life like how could I show my goals to my dog? How would I make my dog happy that they're doing the right thing? and do those things for yourself. I'm gonna go on a run and then I'm gonna celebrate with something. If I'm setting goals, I'm gonna put thousands of pictures associated with each goal so that there I can see images so that the mamalian brain starts to understand the direction. So it's not human going this direction and mamalian brain doesn't know the human wants to go this direction. So getting that mamalian brain on board is so critically important. So, say I I hired you and I said, "You know what? Like, Chase, like I have been struggling with discipline, procrastination for years and I just can't seem to figure it out. I got my dopamine chart here and it's like I'm doing all the wrong habits. What how can I quickly like start to unlearn some of these bad habits and then be able to build discipline and stay consistent even when I don't feel like it?" So, one of the biggest mistakes that I see clients making, so if you're my client here and I'm I'm talking to you and this is our our thing here, there was a mistake in your language that I hear from so many people, if you don't mind me calling you out. >> Of course. >> You said discipline to do all of these things that I don't want to do. A lot of people see people eating healthy and going to the gym, maybe eating a keto diet or or something like that and they're doing these things all the time. Maybe they're writing a book and they're they're disciplined about writing the book, but the our mind says, "I wish I had that level of discipline or or we internally think they're so disciplined about that." Nothing of what you're seeing is discipline. that guy who goes to the gym every day. None of that is discipline. It's routine. The discipline was there when the habit was started only. So it's very important that we understand discipline is a finite resource. So let's let's start one habit at a time. So we're setting habits instead of goals. And the discipline is only we only need like a little shot glass full of discipline to kick off a habit. And most people have these 19 goals. Like they're sitting there eating hot dogs every day and they're surfing social media for 18 hours a day. They have this really horrible lifestyle. And they're like, "You know what? In six weeks, I'm going to be muscular, fit, thin, successful, rich, good-looking, and have extremely white teeth." So, you need one try to do one discipline habit formation at a time. And the fastest discipline thing that kind of sprouts to rewards in every other area of life is I'm going to use this little shot glass of discipline to start forming a habit of taking care of my future self. If I can do that, if that becomes a habit, everything benefits. every single aspect of my life starts changing because I'm getting I'm using my discipline to force this one thing into a habit for like I think it's 64 days it takes to set a habit and whatever number somebody says is wrong. Some of them are are useful but it's probably around around that time. I'm going to use that little shot glass of discipline to do that. So now if I have a habit of prioritizing my future self, every other habit that I want to form starts getting easier because I have an emotional relationship with that future version of me. And if how do I get the mamalian brain involved? You download that app on your phone that's like make me look old or I think it's called face app and it makes you like 95 years old. You can take a selfie with it and it makes you super old. Print those out on a nice color printer and put it on your fridge. Put it next to your bed. Put it in your office where you're going to see it. So, we don't really prioritize our future self because we never met them. We have no relationship to our future self. So, this helps that mamalian brain start prioritizing and connecting with that longer vision, that older version of our self. We've talked quite a bit about self-awareness and understanding some of the things in our life that might be limiting us whether whether it be like you know how we show up in situations, our environment, our relationship with dopamine etc. And you talked about like you kind of called me out and said the number one mistake that you know you see people make is that they think that you know you said to get people to do things they don't necessarily want to do. In that same conversation, is there anything that you see like right off the bat common thread that you help people kind of stop the bleeding where you're like, "All right, generally speaking, there's like three or four or five things that you see most people do time and time again that's destroying their focus and their inability to reach their goals." >> Yes. So, we'll go through kind of an I have a separate little inventory I walk each of my clients through. And I want to identify where you're feeling discomfort in your life. So it's social settings and all this other stuff. And then I'm going to identify where you seek comfort like Instagram, Tik Tok, alcohol, all of these things in your life. And we're going to pull com we're going to start making it more uncomfortable in those areas and increasing the comfort in the other areas. So so much of this stuff comes down to being comfortable. So, I'm seeking comfort like most people are seeking comfort in video games, TV, Netflix, binging, Tik Tok or whatever. And that's more acting as an anesthetic. So, I want to find out where all of these little situations we have this long questionnaire we go through, but essentially what are all these little scenarios where I experience some kind of discomfort? maybe when I go to the bank, when I when I log in and check my account, when I have to speak on stage, when I have to do a pitch, all of these other things. And then where am I seeking comfort? And then so this is kind of like a dopamine map except it's stress versus anesthetic is really what we're we're finding out here. So I'm going to pull out of the anesthetic and start pulling some of that onto the stress side. And you'd be wildly surprised at how fast those things can kind of reverse. So, where are we seeking comfort? And I can start polo pulling away from that. And it gives more energy, more discipline, more willpower to all of these other things. And and start it is such a rapid change. I've seen people change in as little as like a week and a half, two weeks just from mapping this out and getting super raw and real on a lot of this stuff. And hypnosis is is a fast way to do that and a fast way to really make that change that you were asking about. you know, a lot of your work talks about like controlling the mind, understanding people's body language, un understanding how to read people, you know, and I think sometimes people are like, how does that apply to me? Like, when am I ever going to really need to quote unquote do that? Like, the people I'm around, I already trust, you know, when I go into certain situations, like, no one's going to be deceitful. like give the elevator pitch as to why people should care about that area of your work even though they're not like in in the in the intelligence agency. >> So I think when people hear behavior profiling or body language expert they assume that it's about lie detection and the truth is it's it's more about stress detection. I really want to spot these little stress signals and I want to spot what makes somebody really comfortable, what somebody's interested in. And everything that I teach in my company goes down to three things. And if you look at what determines success in life, we can we can look at communication skills like can I communicate, persuade, influence very effectively? Can I master myself? So communication, self-mastery and observation. So, our failures can be traced back to I failed to communicate. I wasn't really in charge of myself. I was sending all the wrong signals or I didn't observe the room. I failed to read the room. So, this goes back to understanding what people are really feeling and underst
