 the chemical itself. >> And so what what can be helpful for for people to do that? Well, on the light side, kind of the caffeinefree diet advice part of this would be like just having something there. So, if I'm quitting drinking, I'm going to set up a scenario where I'm going to have something there that I'm can I'm sipping on throughout the evening or if I drink at night or or whatever it is. And on the the heavier side of this, and this is not advice uh for anybody, but u you need to talk to your doctor, but psychedelics are one of the fastest ways that you can do this. And this is through uh a psilocybin journey. And now ketamine prescriptions are are getting more common place. Doctors are feeling less anxiety and insecurity about writing that the prescription for micro do ketamine like to be used throughout the day. And this is like a 25 mgram troy that you can dissolve under your tongue and it can help with addiction and coming off of things and anxiety and depression and PTSD and so much of these other things even though it's a man-made uh substance. It's it's proven to be so incredibly helpful and it's it's likelihood for abuse is so low. And like if you look at mushrooms, they're anti-addictive. Nobody's addicting getting addicted to uh like psychedelic mushrooms or anything like that. So I think that that's a huge revolution that I think people should be taking more advantage of. I mean, our ancestors used this stuff for millennia and we kind of it's good to see that we're going through this psychedelic revolution right now where there's so much of this stuff is starting to come out and I think people are waking up to it. So, is there a way to mimic that without psychedelics? Because obviously like there's cost involved with that and you want to make sure you're doing it under medical care and there maybe there's people that you know a lot of people who struggle have struggled with addiction are like completely sober and that's like against their moral compass especially if they're in like 12step to do anything like that. So, have you found um like any practices that can, you know, over time get you deeply connected to your subconscious so that you can kind of move forward with the pain and trauma in your life? >> There is one uh the the most effective thing I've ever seen that doesn't involve any I hate to use the word drug. Uh it's such a stupid word and it it's not appropriate to talk about psychedelics at all. But the thing that uses just our body is this thing called neurogenic trimmers. And if you look at a mammal, the average mammal is programmed, all mammals are programmed to go through this trimmering process. So when a squirrel or a fox or a impala or a tiger or polar bear goes through some kind of traumatic experience, let's say they're drinking water at some watering crocodile, bites them in the neck and they survive. They don't go back to their little tribe area or their den and like curl up under a tree for weeks at a time. And why don't why don't we have that? Why don't we have psychoggenic trauma in animals? Um, and one thing that this guy who did the research on this, his name is Dr. David Burcelli, brilliant, brilliant guy. Uh, he was a trauma surgeon. Uh, but he noticed that after these animals had this trauma experience, they go into this state that looks like the body is vibrating or shaking almost like it looks kind of like a seizure. And you can even ask, if you know a police officer, you can ask a cop. They roll up on a car accident and there's an infant in the back seat in a in a stroller or or not a stroller, like a car seat and they survived, their body goes into the shaking response. But think about this for a second. Throughout your life, like if you get into something that's super heavy, traumatic, or stressful, and your hands are shaking, like let's say you're trying to maybe dial 911, and what's the first thing people say when their hands are shaking? They say, "I can't stop shaking." Because we develop this instinct to suppress these tremors. And we're the we we all have the instinct to to go into these tremors. But we have this instinct like if I if I lay on the ground and shiver and shake around that is going to make me look sick. It's going to look like a seizure. Because what are people going to do if you're going into this tremor state? They're going to try to stop you as soon as possible. who will lay you down, tell you to stop, tell you everything's okay. So, it's socially weird for us to do that. So, we suppress this. Uh, but the cool thing is you're not going to see a fox or a monkey or a squirrel with depression. You're not going to see it. Uh, and the one thing that that we really suppress that they don't is this tremor response. And Dr. Brcelli's work is is he had he has named these tremors himself. Uh but his system is called trauma release exercises and it's free. You can watch it on YouTube. You can learn about it. And the cool thing is it's not like you have to learn how to do it. It's built into your nervous system to handle this trauma response. The one thing the thing that takes time to learn is how to stop suppressing it. How to kind of take your finger off of that kill switch and let that stuff start coming out. And the the really fascinating thing about it is that it's mostly just brain stem and spinal cord. You can have a full conversation while your body's going into this stuff. You look this up on YouTube separately, but you can watch TV, you can read a book, you can listen to an audio book. You do not need to be consciously involved in the process. So, the body really knows how to fix itself. Uh, and I've seen this, this is it's so popular and so effective that it was mandatory for us to go through some of this training coming back from a deployment. uh overseas and it changed my life. The first time I ever did it, it was lifechanging and it takes you maybe 30 or 45 minutes to to find your way into this trimmer state. But once you do it, once you do it one time, you can come back to those tremors very easily within like 5 seconds for the rest of your life. >> That's fascinating. That's wild. >> It's cool. And when you walk somebody through it, the first phase that that we go through is is called the ego phase because I'm I'm starting to do these trimmers. I might be laying down and we'll put somebody in a stressed position for a minute to kind of induce the muscle trimmers. So that you're you're saying, "Yes, I want this. I want this." So you're teaching the brain stem that it's okay. You're kind of giving the brain stem permission to do what it's been not allowed to do for a very long time. And but the ego phase is what prevents us from really doing it. And and that's what takes the time is going through that ego phase of it's okay for me to do this and I want this to happen. >> I've heard you say that like one of the biggest things that people struggle with that consume your content is they feel like they're lacking control in their life. What do you think they're lacking control of? >> Well, this has multiple levels. I think our we are in a pandemic of loneliness and that is the top part of Maslo like the social belonging confidence and all of that leads to an increase in the next level which is our self-confidence our personal discipline which leads to a failure in the top part of Maslo's hierarchy of needs which is like this self-actualization can I like can I accomplish the crap that I want to accomplish this year >> and what do you think people can do if they're feeling lonely, out of control, they don't know what their future's going to hold. Like what's the first step, you know, that somebody can take to kind of get themselves out of that rut? One of the first is realizing that all of this social media and stuff is a placebo of relationships and it doesn't actually fulfill your your primal need for belonging and connection with people. And the second part is develop just an in you know we we have you heard of locus of control? >> I haven't. So a person with an internal locus of control says I decide what happens in my life. I'm in charge of the outcomes. It's my fault if something goes wrong. And an external locus of control is kind of like the world happens to me. So like my control center is all out there. So obviously people who are successful have that internal locus of control and they're in charge. But there's also an internal locus of self-esteem. So, where does my self-esteem come from? Does it come from in here or comments on social media or something like that? And I see your YouTube plaque back there. I've got a a bunch of those here. And like if I allowed those those really positive comments and that that's my source of esteem that's the same exact window that opens to for the negative comments to come in and just make me feel like so that means I have an external locus of self-esteem. If your self-esteem is internally derived then there's nothing external that can really happen. So that would be number one is I'm going to start doing everything I can to not allow this positive things out here to influence how I feel about me and all the negative things can't influence me either. So that is an internal self-esteem locus. So step two is developing that sense of personal discipline and we can dig into that if you want to do that and there are some proven ways to absolutely do that and that ways that nobody's talking about. >> Yeah, I would love to get into like how you can kind of hack your brain to become more disciplined. But first like following up on what you just said. I think it's so true. However, I think it's much easier said than done because I do think that in many ways like external validation and praise can be a great metric for how you're doing in life. Like, you know, I I see the views and subscribers and stuff on YouTube and it's like, okay, I'm on the right track. However, you know, if I let that be the basis of how I feel about myself, it can be a very slippery slope. So how can people get how can people develop a better relationship with external validation and and not be how can people develop a better relationship with the external and feel good about themselves without focusing on that? >> Yeah. So the it starts with one thing and that is when I see positive or negative information does that help me act or feel? So it should be acting. So it I should act a different way because I'm using these YouTube comments or YouTube metrics. Is it influencing how I feel about me? Is it changing my self-worth? And if I receive love, if I need, sorry, if I need love from strangers, that means my door is open to hate as well. And these are absolute strangers who should never dictate a single ounce of your self-esteem or how you feel about yourself. So feeling great about it and you can feel good, but it dictating your self-worth is absolutely toxic. And it's pretty easy to start just kind of getting that into your mind on a regular basis when I'm reading the comments, I'm reading, I don't know, messages on social media. If I allow that to change my self-esteem, something is wrong. But it should be I don't know this person. I I wouldn't invite them into my house at this point. they they also shouldn't be invited into my head. So if if you wouldn't allow them in your in your around your kids, hanging around your house, they don't belong in your head either. >> Well, and I think the the thing that takes over is this dopamine trap, right? I know you talk a lot about dopamine and how the most successful people in the world, they like know how to harness their dopamine, not let it get out of control. like talk more about what you mean by that and what are some things people can do to have a really healthy relationship with dopamine. >> Your source of dopamine, your number one source of dopamine should be you. Not your kids, not your wife, not your family. It should be you and your a
