ns, the pineal gland, or this unusual pine cone-shaped structure, seems to produce melatonin and regulate our sleep. In other words, it's critical in regulating biological rhythms. But, we also know that it's somewhat sensitive to light as in it usually receives signals from our two eyes right here via hypothalamus. And so, when it's dark, melatonin production increases, which makes you sleepy, but when it's light, the production is stopped and this allows you to stay alert. And that's of course the natural of the so-called circadian rhythm. But, we know that obviously other vertebrates have this as well. And intriguingly, in many other vertebrates like certain lizards, frogs, and of course fish, the pineal gland is actually connected to a visible third eye on top of their head. This is known as the parietal eye. Here's for example one in a bullfrog and here's one inside a lizard. And this is not just a dot, this is an actual eye with a cornea, a lens, and a retina. And even though our pineal gland is technically buried inside a skull and does not see the light directly, it still contains exactly the same structure and same cells referred to as pinealocytes. These are actually found in the retinas of our eyes as well. Or just to rephrase this, if you were to shine the light on the pineal gland somehow, you would probably sense it. And so, in a very real sense, it's actually not wrong to say that we have three eyes and we do have a third eye right here in the middle. Although we don't really see much with it anymore unlike these other vertebrates like frogs and fish. But, more importantly, this confirms this unusual origin story and confirms that the origin of vertebrate vision is still inside of us even today. As a matter of fact, it confirms that our eyes very likely started from that central eye in the middle sometimes 600 million years ago. But, in terms of the evolution of vision, one question still remains. Why do so many animals contain eyes? Or basically, why is vision so successful? And today it's believed that it was really because of the Cambrian explosion approximately 540 million years ago. This is based on the idea known as the light switch hypothesis that suggests that once some of the first complex size appeared, specifically in animals like trilobites, it basically sparked a kind of an evolutionary arms race. And this is because vision turned animals into active hunters and not just passive feeders. And that means that prey also had to evolve in order to survive. And so here we had a kind of a burst of evolutionary innovation that eventually led to massive diversity of life and massive diversity of eyes we see today. But without this first evolution of eyes, the complexity we see inside of us would never exist. So the eye evolution was actually extremely important. But once again, because of the way our eyes evolved and because they were kind of a split off from the central eye, they essentially contain a kind of an evolutionary baggage. So basically it explains why our eyes seem to be built backwards and upside down compared to eyes of octopuses. But despite this backward design, our eyes seem to be still much more efficient and even seem to have much higher metabolism, which actually helps us see incredible detail that's almost impossible for many different invertebrates. In other words, despite this backward design, our eyes are still much more efficient. But overall these types of studies take us just a little bit closer to helping us understand how complex life evolved and how our brains and our senses seem to be wired together. And so this basically shows us that evolution doesn't always find a perfect path, but sometimes just takes these unusual shortcuts or even repurposes something that we already have in order to create something unusual and something spectacular. But at least for now, that's all I wanted to mention. Once we discover something else, we'll come back and talk more about this in some of the future videos. Until then, thank you for watching, subscribe, come back tomorrow to learn something else, support the show on Patreon where you can find additional videos, videos without any ads, and can DM me directly, or by joining channel membership that grants you early access. You can also support this channel by buying a wonderful person t-shirt in the description below. Stay wonderful. I'll see you tomorrow, and as always, bye-bye.
